Hff 



















MpM'r 



imp$}fm 







GfarttcU UttmerattH Slihrarg 

3tl;ant, S^em lark 



FROM THE 



BENNO LOEWY LIBRARY 

COLLECTED BY 

BENNO LOEWY 

1854-1919 
BEQUEATHED TO CORNELL UNIVERSITY 



Cornell University Library 
HS440 .A54 1723b 
+ 
The constitutions of the Free-IUIasons : 





3 1924 030 299 402 
olin.anx Overs 



QfotncU Inttt8t0ita Slibrarjj 



FROMiTHE 



BENNO LOEWY LIBRARY 

COLLECTED BY 

BENNO LOEWY 

1854-1919 
BEQUEATHED TO CORNELL UNIVERSITY 



m 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of this book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924030299402 









TIONS. 





THE 



CONSTITUTIONS 



OF THE 



FREE-MASONS. 



CONTAINING THE 



Hiftory^ Charges, Regulations^ &c. 

of that moft Ancient and Right 

Worfhipful FRATERNITY' 

For the Ufe of the LODGES. 




LONDON: 

Printed by William Hunter, for John Senex at the Globe, 
and John Ho o k e at the Flower-de-luce over-againft St. Dunstan's 
Church, in Fleet-street. 

In the Year of Mafonry 5723 

Anno Domini — — 1723 



NEW YORK: 

republished, FAC-SIMILE, by JNO. W. LEONARD AND CO., MASONIC PUBLISHERS, 383 BROADWAY. 

1855. 



HOLMAN & GRAY, 

Printers and Stereotypers, N. Y. 




T O 

His Grace the DUKE of 

MONTAGU 

My Lord, 

Y Order of his Grace the 
DUKE of WHARTON, 

the prefent Right Worfhip- 
ful Grand Master of the 
Free-Masons ; and, as his Deputy, I 

humbly 




DEDICATION. 

« 

humbly dedicate this Book of the Con- 
stitutions of our ancient Fraternity 
to your Grace, in Teftimony of your 
honourable, prudent, and vigilant difcharge 
of the Office of our Grand-Master 
laft year. 

I need not tell your Grace what 
Pains our learned A u t H o r has taken 
in compiling and digefting this Book from 
the old Records, and how accurately he 
has compar'd and made every thing agree- 
able to History and Chronology, fo 
as to render thefe New Constitutions 
a juft and exact Account of Masonry 
froin the beginning of the World to your 

Grace's 



DEDICATION. 

Grace's Mastership, ftill 
preferving all that was truly ancient and 
authentick in the old ones : For every 
Brother will be pleas'd with the Per- 
formance, that knows it had your 
Grace's Perulal and Approbation, 
and that it is now printed for the 
Ufe of the Lodges, after it was 
approv'd by the Grand-Lodge, 
when your Grace was Grand 
Master. All the Brother- 
hood will ever remember the Honour 
your Grace has done them, and 
your Care for their Peace, Harmony, 

and 



DEDICATIO 

and lafting Friendfhip :' Which none is 
more duly fenfible of than, 

My LORD, 

Your Grace's , 

Moft oblig'd, and 

Moll obedient Servant, 

And Faithful Brother, 



J. T. Desaguliers 
Deputy Grand-Mafter. 



TO THE 

M. W. WINSLOW LEWIS, M. D., 

Grand Mafter of Mafons of the Grand Lodge of Mafsachufetts, 

THIS FAC-SIMILE OF THE ANCIENT CONSTITUTIONS; 

A DOCUMENT 
Which he has carefully read and diligently obferved, 

IS DEDICATED, 

AS A SLIGHT TRIBUTE OF RESPECT FOR HIS CHARACTER AS A MAN AND MASON, 
AND AS A SINCERE TOKEN OP THE 

PRIVATE ESTEEM AND PERSONAL FRIENDSHIP OF 

THE PUBLISHERS. 



THE 



CONSTITUTION, 

Hifiory^ Laws^ Charges, Orders, 
Regulations, and Ufages, 



OF THE 



Right Worfliipful FRATERNITY of 

Accepted Free MASONS 5 



COLLECTED 



From their general RECORDS, and 
their faithful TRADITIONS of 
many Ages. 

TO BE READ 

At the Admiffion of a New Brother, when the 
Master or Warden fhall begin, or order fome 
other Brother to read as follows : 

DAM, our firft Parent, created after the 
Image of God, the great Architect of the 
Universe, muft have had the Liberal Sci- 
ences, particularly Geometry, written on Year of 

1-r r iiiri ^^^ World 

his Heart ; for even unce the Fall we find i- 

4603. 

the Principles of it in the Hearts of his Offspring, and before 
which, in procefs of time, have been drawn forth into 

A a con- 




a convenient Method of Propositions, by obferving the 
Laws of Proportion taken from Mechanism : So that as 
the Mechanical Arts gave Occalion to the Learned to 
reduce the Elements of Geometry into Method, this 
noble Science, thus reduc'd, is the Foundation of 
all thole Arts, (particularly of Masonry and Architec- 
ture) and the Rule by which they are conducted and 
perform'd. 

No doubt Adam taught his Sons Geometry, and the 
ufe of it, in the feveral Arts and Crafts convenient, 
at leaft, for thofe early Times ; for Cain, we find, 
built a City, which he call'd Consecrated, or 
Dedicated, after the Name of his eldeft Son 
Enoch; and becoming the Prince of the one Half 
of Mankind, his Pofterity would imitate his royal 
Example in improving both the noble Science and the 
ufeful Art.* 

Nor can we fuppofe that Seth was lefs inflrudied, 
who being the Prince of the other Half of Mankind, 
and alfo the prime Cultivator of Astronomy, would 
take equal Care to teach Geometry and Masonry to his 

Offspring, 



* As other Arts were alfo improv'd by them, viz. working in Metal by Tubal 
Cain, Mufic by J u b a l , Paftorage and Tent-Makjng by J a b a l , which lafl; is 
good Architefture. 



( 3 ) 

Offspring, who had alfo the mighty Advantage of 
Adam's living among them.f 

But without regarding uncertain Accounts, we may 
fafely conclude the old World, that lafted 1656 Years, 
could not be ignorant of Masonry ; and that both the 
Families of Seth and Cain eredled many curious Works, 
until at length Noah, the ninth from Seth, was com- 
manded and direded of God, to build the great Ark, 
which, tho' of Wood, was certainly fabricated by 
Geometry, and according to the Rules of Masonry. 

Noah, and his three Sons, Japhet, Shem, and 
Ham, all Masons true, brought with them over the 
Flood, the Traditions and Arts of the Ante-deluvians, 
and amply communicated them to their growing Off- 
fpring ; for about 10 1 Years after the Flood, we find a j^^^^ 
vaft Number of 'em, if not the whole Race of Noah, ^''"^* 

' ^7 S7 • 

in the Vale of Shinar, employ'd in building a City and ^ntt^' 
large Tower, in order to make to themfelves a Name, ^^"^"™' 

A 2 and 



t For by fome Veftiges of Antiquity we find one of 'em, godly Enoch, (who dy'd 
not, but was , tranflated alive to Heaven) prophecying of the final Conflagration at the 
Day of Judgment (as St. J u d e tells us) and likewife of the General Deluge for the 
Punifhment of the World : Upon which he erefted his two large Pillars, (tho' fome af- 
cribe them to Seth) the one of Stone, and the other of Brick, whereon were engraven 
the Liberal Sciences, "&c. And that the Stone Pillar remain'd in Syria until the Days of 
Vespasian ~the Ejnpcror. 



(4) 

and to prevent their Difperfion. And tho' they carry'd 
on the Work to a monftrous Height, and by their Va- 
nity provok'd God to confound their Devices, by con- 
• founding their Speech, which occafion'd their Difper- 
A. M. fion ; yet their Skill in Masonry is not the lefs to be 
2194'. celebrated, having fpent above 53 Years in that pro- 
digious Work, and upon their Difperfion carry'd the 
mighty Knowledge with them into diftant Parts, where, 
they found the good ufe of it in the Settlement of 
their Kingdoms, Commonwealths, and Dynasties, And 
tho' afterwards it was loft in moft Parts of the Earth, 
it was efpecially preferv'd in ShiNar and Assyria, where 
N I M R o D ,* the Founder of that Monarchy, after the 
Difperiion, built many fplendid Cities, as Ereck, Accad, 
and Calneh, in S h i n a r ; from whence afterwards he 
went forth into Assyria, and built Niniveh, Reho- 
BOTH, Caleh, and Rhesin. 

In thefe Parts, upon .the Tygris and Euphrates, after- 
wards ilourifh'd many learned Priests and Mathema- 
ticians, known by the Names of Chaldees and 

Magi, 



* N I M R o D, which fignifies a Rebel, was the Name given him by the holy Family, and 
by Moses ; but among his Friends in Chaldea, his proper Name was B e l u s , which 
fignifies Lord; and afterwards was worfliipped as a God by many Nations, under the 
Name of Bel, or Baal, and became the Bacchus of the Ancients, or Bar Chus, the 
Son of Chus. 



( 5 ) 

Magi, who preferv'd the good Science, Geometry, 
as the Kings and great Men encourag'd the Royal 
Art. But it is not expedient to fpeak more plain of 
the premifes, except in a formed Lodge. 

From hence, therefore, the Science and Art were 
both tranfmitted to latter Ages and diftant Climes, not- 
withftanding the confufion of Languages or Dialeds, 
which, tho' it might help to give Rife to the Mafons 
Faculty and ancient univerfal Praab fflis 
IsH Sabbal, Men of Burden, or Labourers, who were not Mafons, but ferved the 80,000 
asn ©IS IsH Chotzeb, Men of Hewing, called alfo ta^bas Ghiblim, Stone-Cutters and 
Sculpturers; and alfo Bonai, ija Builders in Stone, part of which belong'd to Solomon, 
and part to Hiram, King of Tyre, i Kings v. i 8. 



( " ) 

SALEM, and the Firs and Cedars of Lebanon to Joppa, 
the next Sea-port. 

But above all, he fent his Namefake Hiram, or 
HuRAM, the moft accomplifh'd Mafon upon Earth.* 

B 2 And 



* We read (2 Chron. ii. 13.) Hiram, King of Tyre, (called there Huram) in his 
Letter to King Solomon, fays, I have sent a cunning Man, ^ax tallrtli le Huram Abhi, 
not to be tranflated according to the vulgar Greek and Latin, Huram my Father, as if 
this Architeft was King Hiram's Father; for his Defcription, ver. 14. refutes it, and the 
Original plainly imports, Huram of my Father's, viz. the Chief Master-Mason of my 
Father, King Abibalus; (who enlarg'd and beautify'd the City of Tyre, as ancient 
Hiftorics inform us, whereby the Tyrians at this time were moft expert in Masonry) tho' 
fome think Hiram the King might calF Hiram the Architeft Father, as learned and skillful 
Men were wont to be call'd of old Times, or as Joseph was call'd the Father of Pharaoh; 
and as the feme Hiram is call'd Solomon's Father, (2 Chron. iv. 16.) where 'tis faid 

naiiu -fr^'b T'SS t=i-nri iiius 

Shelomoh lammelech Abhif Churam ghnasah. 
Did Huram, his Father, make to King Solomon. 

But the Difficulty is over at once, by allowing the Word Abie to be the Surname of 
Hiram the Mafon, called alfo (Chap. i'. 13.) Hiram Abi, as here Hiram Abif ; for being 
fo amply defcrib'd, (Chap. ii. 14.) we may eafily foppofe his Surname would not be conceal'd: 
And this Reading makes the Senfe plain and compleat, viz. that H'R-am, King of Tyre, 
sent to King Solomon his Namesake Hiram Abif, the Prince of Architects, 
defcrib'd (i Kings vii. 14.) to be a Widow's Son of the Tribe of Naphthali ; and in 
(2 Chron. ii. 14.) the faid King of Tyre calls him the Son of a Woman of the Daughters 
OF Dan ; and in both Places, that his Father was a Man of Tyre ; which Difficulty is 

remov'd. 



And the prodigious Expence of it alfo enhaunceth 
its Excellency; for befides King David's vaft Prepara- 
tions, his richer Son Solomon, and all the wealthy 
Israelites, and the Nobles of all the neighbouring 
Kingdoms, largely contributed towards it in Gold, 
Silver, and rich Jewels, that amounted to a Sum almoft 
incredible. 

Nor do we read of any thing in Canaan fo large, 
the Wall that inclos'd it being 7700 Foot in Compafs; 

far 



remov'd, by fuppofing his Mother was either of the Tribe oF^Dan, or of the Daughters 
of the City called Dan in the Tribe of Naphthali, and his deceafed Father had been a 
Naphthalite, whence his Mother was call'd a Widow of Naphthali j for his Father is not 
cali'd a Tyrian by Defcent, but a Man of Tyre by Habitation j as Obed Edom the 
Levite is call'd a Gittite by living among the Gittites, and the Apoftle Paul a Man 
of Tarsus. But fuppofing a Miftake in Tranfcribers, and that his Father was really a 
Tyrian by Blood, and his Mother only of the Tribe either of Dan or of Naphthali, 
that can be no Bar againft allowing of his vaft Capacity ; for as his Father was a 
Worker in Brafs, fo he himfelf was fiU'd with Wifdom and Underftanding, and Cunning 
to work all Works in Brafs : And as King Solomon fent for him, fo King Hiram, 
in his Letter to Solomon, fays. And now I have fent a cunning Man, endued with 
Underftanding, skilful to work in Gold, Silver, Brafs, Iron, Stone, Timber, Purple, Blue, 
fine Linnen and Crimfon; alfo to grave any manner of Graving, and to find out every 
Device which Ihall be put to him, with thy cunning Men, and with the cunning Men 
of my Lord David thy Father. This divinely infpired Workman maintain'd this Charafter 
in erefting the Temple, and in working the Utenfils thereof, far beyond the Performances 
of Ahohab and Bezaleel, being alfo univerfally capable of all forts of Mafonry. 



( 13 ) 

far lefs any holy Strudure fit to be nam'd with it, for 
exad:ly proportion'd and beautiful Dimenfions, from 
the magnificent Porch on the East, to the glorious and 
reverend Sanctum Sanctorum on the West, with moft 
lovely and convenient Apartments for the Kings and 
Princes, Priests and Levites, Israelites, and Gentiles 
alfo3 it being an Houfe of Prayer for all Nations, and 
capable of receiving in the Temple proper, and in all 
its Courts and Apartments together, no lefs than 
300,000 People, by a modefl: Calculation, allowing a 
fquare Cubit to each Perfon. 

■ And if we confider the 1453 Columns of Parian 
Marble, with twice as many Pillasters, both having 
glorious Capitals of feveral Orders, and about 2246 
Windows, befides thofe in the Pavement, with the un- 
fpeakable and coftly Decorations of it within j (and 
MUCH more might BE said) wc muft conclude its 
Prolpedt to tranfcend our Imagination ; and that it 
was juftly efteem'd by far the fineft Piece of Masonry 
upon Earth before or fince, and the chief Wonder of 
the World : and was dedicated, or confecrated, in the 

' A. M. 

molt folemn manner, by King Solomon. soqo- 

But leaving what muft not, and indeed cannot, be AmeCh. 
communicated by Writing, we may warrantably afiirm, 
that however ambitious the Heathen were in cultivating 
of the Royal Art, it was never perfe6ted, until God 

conde- 



(H) 

condefcended to inftrudt his peculiar People in rearing 
the above-mention'd ftately Tent, and in building 
at length this gorgeous House, fit for the fpecial Re- 
fulgence of his Glory, where he dwelt between the 
Cherubims on the Mercy-Seat, and from thence gave 
them frequent oraculous Refponfes. 

This moft fumptuous, fplendid, beautiful, and glo- 
rious Edifice, attracted foon the inquifitive Artifts of 
all Nations to fpend fome time at Jerusalem, and fur- 
vey its peculiar Excellencies, as much as was allow'd 
to the Gentiles j whereby they foon difcover'd, that all 
the World, with their joint Skill, came far fhort of the 
Israelites, in the Wifdom and Dexterity of Architec- 
ture, when the wise King Solomon was Grand 
Master of the Lodge at Jerusalem, and the learned 
King Hiram was Grand Master of the 
Lodge at Tyre, and the inspired Hiram Abif was 
Master of Work, and Masonry was under the imme- 
diate Care and Diredion of Heaven, when the Noble 
and the Wise thought it their Honour to be aflifting to 
the ingenious Masters and Craftsmen, and when the 
Temple of the True God became the Wonder of 
all Travellers, by which, as by the moft perfed: Pattern, 
they corredled the Architecture of their own Country 
upon their return. 

So that after the Eredion of Solomon's Temple, Ma- 
sonry 



( 15 ) 

soNRY was improv'd in all the neighbouring Nations; 
for the many Artifts employ 'd about it, under Hiram 
Abif, after it was finifh'd, difpers'd themfelves into 
Syria, Mesopotamia, Assyria, Chaldea, Babylonia, Me- 
dia, Persia, Arabia, Africa, Lesser Asia, Greece, and 
other Parts of Europe, where they taught this liberal 
Art to the FREE BORN Sons of eminent Perfons, by whofe 
Dexterity the Kings, Princes, and Potentates, built 
many glorious Piles, and became the Grand Mas- 
ters, each in his own Territory, and were emulous 
of excelling in this Royal Art ; nay, even in India, 
where the Correfpondence was open, we may conclude 
the fame: But none of the Nations, nor all together, 
could rival the Israelites, far lefs excel them, in Ma- 
sonry ; and their Temple remain'd the conftant Pattern.* 

Nay, 



*For tho' the Temple of Diana at Ephesus is suppof'd to have been firft built by 
fome of Japhet's Pofterity, that made a settlement in Jonia about the Time of Moses ; 
yet it was often demolilh'd, and then rebuilt for the fake of Improvements in Masonry; 
and we cannot compute the Period of its laft glorious Eredlion (that became another of 
the Seven Wonders of the World) to be prior to that of Solomon's Temple; but 
that long afterwards the Kings of Lesser Asia join'd, for 220 Years, in finifhing it, 
with 107 Columns of the iineft Marble, and many of 'em with moft exquifite Sculpture 
(each at the Expence of a King, by the Master-Masons Dresiphon and A r c h i - 
p H R o N ) to fupport the planked Cieling and Roof of pure Cedar, as the Doors and 
Linings were of Cypress : Whereby it became the Mistrefs of Lesser Asia, in Length 

425 Foot, 



Ante Ch. 



(i6) 

Nay, the Grand Monarch Nebuchadne- 
z A R could never, with all his unfpeakable Advan- 
tages, carry up his Masonry to the beautiful Strength 
and Magnificence of the Temple Work, which he had, 
A.M. in warlike Rage, burnt down, after it had remain'd in 
sss! Splendor 416 Years from its Consecration. For after 
his Wars were over, and general Peace proclaim'd, he 
fet his Heart on Architecture, and became the Grand 
Master-Mason; and having before led captive 
the ingenious Artifts of Judea, and other conquer'd 
Countries, he rais'd indeed the largejft Work upon 
Earth, even the Walls* and City, the Palaces and 

Hanging 



425 Foot, and in Breadth 2Z0 Foot: Nay, fo admirable a Fabrick, that Xerxes left 

■"• ™ it ftanding when he burnt all the other Temples in his Way to Greece ; tho' at laft 
3648... 
, r 6. '^^ ^^^ ^^' °"- ■^^''^ ^^^ burnt down by a vile Fellow, only for the Luft of being 

Ante Ch. talk'd of, on the very Day that Alexander the Great was born. 

*In Thicknefs 87 Foot, in Height 350 Foot, and in Compafs 480 Furlongs, or 60 
British Miles in an exaft Square of 15 Miles a Side, built of large Bricks, cemented 
with the hard Bitumen of that old Vale of Shinar, with 100 Gates of Brass, or 25 
a-fide, and 250 Towers ten Foot higher than the Walls. 

From the faid 25 Gates in each Side went 25 Streets in ftrait Lines, or in all 50 
Streets, each 15 Miles long, with four half Streets next the Walls, each 200 Foot 
broad, as the entire Streets were 150 Foot broad: And fo the whole City was thus 
cut out into 676 Squares, each being 2 Miles and i in Compafs; round which were 
the Houses built three or four Stories high, well adorn'd, and accommodated with Yards, 
Gardens, &c. A Branch of the Euphrates run thro' the Middle of it, from North 
to South, over which, in the Heart of the City, was built a ftately Bridge, in Length a 

Furlong, 



( I? ) 

Hanging-Gardens, the Bridge and Temple of Babylon, 
the Third of the Seven Wonders of the World, 
tho' vaftly inferior, in the fublime Perfeftion of Ma- 
sonry, to the holy, charming, lovely Temple of God. 
But as the Jewish Captives were of fpecial ufe to 
Nebuchadnezzar in his glorious Buildings, fo 

being 



Furlong, and thirty Foot in Breadth, by wonderful Art, for supplying the Want of a 
Foundation in the River. At the two Ends of this Bridge were two magnificent Pal- 
aces, the Old Palace, the Seat of ancient Kings, at the Eafl: End, upon the Ground 
of four Squares ; and the New Palace at the Weil End, built by Nebuchadnezzar, 
upon the Ground of nine Squares, with Hanging-Gardens (fo much celebrated by the 
Greeks) where the loftieft Trees could grow as in the Fields, erefted in a Square of 
400 Foot on each Side, carried up by Terraces, and fuftain'd by vaft Arches built 
upon Arches, until the higheft Terrace equal'd the Height of the City-Walls, with a 
curious Aqueduct to water the whole Gardens. Old Babel improv'd, flood on the Eafl 
Side of the River, and the New Town on the Weft Side, much larger than the Old, 
and built in order to make this Capital exceed old Nineveh, tho' it never had fo many 
Inhabitants by one Half. The River was begirt with Banks of Brick, as thick as the 
City Walls, in Length twenty Miles, viz. fifteen Miles within the City, and two Miles 
and a half above and below it, to keep the Water within its Channel ; and each Street 
that crofs'd the River had a brazen Gate leading down to the Water on both Banks; 
and Weft of the City was a prodigious Lake, in Compafs 160 Miles, with a Canal 
from the River into it, to prevent Inundations in the Summer. 

In the Old Town, was the Old Tower of Babel, at the Foundation a Square of 
half- a Mile in Compafs, confifting of eight fquare Towers built over each other, with 
Stairs on the out-fide round it, going up to the Observatory on the Top, 600 Foot 
high (which is 19 Foot higher than the higheft Pyramid) whereby they became the firft 
Aftronomers. And in the Rooms of the Grand Tower, with arched Roofs, fupported 

C by 



(i8) 

being thus kept at work, they retain'd their great Skill 
in Masonry, and continu'd very capable of rebuilding 
the holy Temple and City of Salem upon its old 
A. M. Foundations, which was order'd by the Edid: or Decree 
536. of the Grand Cyrus, according to God's Word, 
that had foretold his Exaltation and this Decree : And 
Cyrus having conftituted Zerubbabel, the 
Son of Salathiel (of the Seed of David, by Nathan, 
the Brother of Solomon, whofe Royal Family was now 

extind:) 



Ante Ch. 



by Pillars 75 Foot high, the idolatrous Worftiip of their God B e l u s was perform'd, 
till now, that this mighty Mafon and Monarch eredled round this ancient Pile a Temple 
of two Furlongs on every Side, or a Mile in Compafs; where he lodg'd the facred 
Trophies of Solomon's Temple, and the golden Image 90 Foot high, that he had 
confecrated in the Plains of Dura, as were formerly in the Tower lodg'd many other 
golden Images, and many precious things, that were afterwards all feiz'd by Xerxes, 
and amounted to above 2i Millions Sterling. 

And when all was finilli'd. King Nebuchadnezzar walking in State in his 
Hanging-Gardens, and from thence taking a Review of the whole City, proudly boafted 
of this his mighty Work; faying. Is not this Great Babylon, that I have built for the 
Houfe of the Kingdom, by the Might of my Power, and for the Honour of my Majefty ? 
but had his Pride immediately rebuk'd by a Voice from Heaven, and punilh'd by brutal 
Madnefs for feven Years, until he gave Glory to the God of Heaven, the Omnipotent 
Architect of the Universe, which he publifh'd by a Decree thro' all his Empire, and dy'd 
next Year, before his Great Babylon was little more than half inhabited (tho' he 
had led many Nations captive for that purpofe) ; nor was it ever fully peopled; for in 
25 Years after his Death, the Grand Cyrus conquer'd it, and remov'd the Throne 
to Shushan in Persia. 



( 19 ) 

extind) the Head, or Prince of the Captivity, and the 
Leader of the Jews and . Israelites returning to Jeru- 
salem, they began to lay the Foundation of the 
Second Temple, and would have foon jfinifh'd 
it, if C Y R u s had liv'd ; but at length they put on 

the Cape-Stone, in the 6th Year of Darius, the a. m. 

3489. 
Persian Monarch, v^hen it was dedicated with Toy, and 5 1 5- 

/ -^ -^ . AnteCh. 

many great Sacrifices, by Zerubbabel the Prince 
and General Master-Mason of the Jews, about 20 
Years after the Decree of the Grand Cyrus. And tho' 
this Temple of Zerubbabel came far fliort of So- 
lomon's Temple, was not fo richly adorn'd with Gold 
and Diamonds, and all manner of precious Stones, 
nor had the Shechinah and the holy Relicks of Moses 
in it, &c. yet being rais'd exad:ly upon Solomon's 
Foundation,- and according to his Model, it was ftill 
the moft regular, Symmetrical, and glorious Edifice in 
the whole World, as the Enemies of the Jews have 
often teftify'd and acknowledg'd. 

At length the Royal Art was carry'd into 
Greece, whofe Inhabitants have left us no Evidence of 
fuch Improvements in Mafonry, prior to Solomon's 

C 2 Temple ; * 



(20) 

Temple ; * for their moft ancient Buildings, as the Cit- 
tadel of Athens, with the Parthenion, or Temple of 
Minerva, the Temples alfo of Theseus, of Jupiter 
Olympius, &c. their Porticos alfo, and Forums, their 
Theatres and Gymnasiums, their public Halls, curious 
Bridges, regular Fortifications, ftout Ships of War, and 
ftately Palaces, were all eredied after the Temple of 
Solomon, and moft of them even after the Temple of 
Zerubbabel. 

Nor do we find the Grecians arriv'd to any con- 

fiderable Knowledge in Geometry, before the Great 

Thales Milesius, the Philofopher, who dy'd in the Reign 

a. m. of Bellshazzar, and the Time of the Jewish Capti- 

Antt ch ^'^^y' ^^^ Scholar, the Greater Pythagoras, 

prov'd the Author of the 4.7th Proposition of Euclid's 

firft 



The Grecians having been long degenerated into Barbarity, forgetting their original 
Skill in Mafonry, (which their Fore-fathers brought from Assyria) by their frequent 
Mixtures with other barbarous Nations, their mutual Invafions, and wafting bloody Wars; 
until by travelling and correfponding with the Asiaticks and Egyptians, they reviv'd their 
Knowledge in Geometry and Masonry both, though few of the Grecians had the 
Honour to own it. 



( ^I ) 

firft Book, wliich, if duly obferv'd, is the Foundation 
of all Mafonry, facred, civil, and military. * 

The People of Lesser Asia about this Time gave 
large Encouragement to Mafons for erecting all forts 
of fumptuous Buildings, one of which must not be 
forgot, being ufually reckon'd the Fourth of the Seven 
Wonders of the World, viz. the Mausoleum, or 
Tomb of " Mausolus King of Caria, between Lycia 
and JoNiA, at Halicarnassus, on the Side of Mount 
Taurus in that Kingdom, at the Command of AR- 
T e m i s i a his mournful Widow, as the fplendid 
Teftimony of her Love to him, built of the moft 
curious Marble, in Circuit 411 Foot, in Height 25 
Cubits, furrounded with 26 Columns of the moft fa- 
mous Sculpture, and the whole open on all Sides, a. m. 
with Arches 73 Foot wide, perform'd by the four prin- ^352] 
cipal Master-Masons and Engravers of thofe Times, ^"^^^^• 

VIZ. 



*Pythagoras travell'd into Egypt the Year that Thales dy'd, and living there 

among the Priefts 2Z Years, became expert in Geometry, and in all the Egyptian 

Learning, until he was captivated by Cambyses King of Persia, and fent to Babylon, A.M. 

where he was much converfant with the Chaldean Magi, and the learned Babylonish 3 4- 7 9- 

525. 
Jews, from whom he borrow'd great Knowledge, that render'd him very famous in Ante Ch. 

Greece and Italy, where afterwards he flourifli'd and dy'd ; when Mordecai was the A. M. 

prime Minifter of State to Ahashuerus King of Persia, and ten Years after Zerub- 349^- 

506. 
babel's Temple was finifli'd. Ante Ch 



(22) 

VIZ. the Eaft Side by Scopas, the Wejft by Leochares, 
the North by Briax, and the South by Timotheus. 

But after Pythagoras, Geometry became the 
darling Study of Greece, where many learned Philo- 
fophers arofe, fome of whom invented fundry Pro- 
politions, or Elements of Geometry, and reduc'd them 
to the ufe of the mechanical Arts.* Nor need we doubt 
that Mafonry kept pace with Geometry 3 or rather, 
A. M. always follow'd it in proportion'd gradual Improve- 
3 o 4. ments, until the wonderful Euclid of Tyre flou- 
rifh'd at Alexandria; who gathering up the fcat- 
ter'd Elements of Geometry, digefted them into a Me- 
thod that was never yet mended, (and for which his 
Name will be ever celebrated) under the Patronage of 
Ptolomeus, the Son of Lagus King of Egypt, 
one of the immediate SuccefTors of Alexander the 
Great. 

And 



* Or borrow'd from other Nations their pretended Inventions, as Anaxagoras, Oeno- 
piDEs, Briso, Antipho, Democritus, Hippocrates, and Theodorus Cyren^us, the Matter 
of the divine Plato, who amplify'd Geometry, and' publilh'd the Art Analytic ; 
from vfhofe Academy came forth a vaft Number, that foon difpers'd their Knowledge to 
diftant Parts, as Leodamus, The^etetus, Archytas, Leon, Eudoxus, Menaichmus, and 
Xenocrates, the Matter of Aristotle, from whofe Academy alfo came forth Eudemus, 
Theophrastus, Arist^us, Isidorus, Hypsicles, and many others. 



( ^3 ) 

And as the noble Science came to be more metho- 
dically taught, the Royal Art was the more generally 
efteem'd and improv'd among the Grecians, who at 
length arriv'd to the fame Skill and Magnificence in it 
with their Teachers the Asiatics and Egyptians. 

The next King of Egypt, Ptolomeus Phila- 
DELPHUs, that great Improver of the liberal Arts, 
and of all ufeful Knowledge, who gather'd the greateft 
Library upon Earth, and had the Old Testament (at 
leaft the Pentateuch) firft tranflated into Greek, be- 
came an excellent Architect, and General Mas- 
ter-Mason, having, among his other great Buil- 37^8. 
dings, eredled the famous Tower of Pharos,* the Ante ch. 
Fifth of the Seven Wonders of the World. 

We 



* On an Ifland near Alexandria, at one of the Mouths of the Nile, of wonderful 
Height and moft cunning Workmanlhip, and all of the finell Marble; and it colt 800 
Talents, or about 480,000 Crowns. The Mafter of Work, under the King, was 
SisTRATUs, a moft ingenious Mafdn; and it was afterwards much admir'd by Julius 
CjEsar, who was a good Judge of moft Things, though chiefly convcrfant in War and 
Politicks. It was intended as a Light-House for the Harbour of Alexandria, from 
which the Light-Houses in the Mediterranean were often call'd Pharos. Though feme, 
inftead of this, mention, as the Fifth Wonder, the great Obelisk of Semiramis, 150 
Foot high, and 24 Foot fquare at Bottom, or 9^0 Foot in Circuit at the Ground, all 
one intire Stone, rifmg pyramidically, brought from Armenia to Babylon about the Time 
of the Siege of Troy, if we may believe the Hiftory of Semiramis. 



(h) 

We may readily believe, that the African Nations, 

even to the Atlantick Shore, did foon imitate Egypt 

in fuch Improvements, though Hiftory fails, and there 

are no Travellers encourag'd to difcover the valuable 

Remains in Mafonry of thofe once renowned Nations. 

Nor fhould we forget the learned Island of Sicily, 

w^here the prodigious Geometrician Archimedes 

a. m. did flourifli,* and was unhappily flain when Syracuse 

2 1 2. was taken by Marcellus, the Roman General : For 

Ante Ch. 1 1 r J a 1 

from Sicily, as well as from Greece, Egypt, and Asia, the 
ancient Romans learnt both the Science and the 
Art, what they knew before being either mean or irre- 
gular j but as they fubdu'd the Nations, they made mighty 
Difcoveries in both; and, like wife Men, led captive, 
not the Body of the People, but the Arts and Sciences, 
with the moft eminent Profeflbrs and Pra6titioners, 
to Rome j which thus became the Center of Learning, 
as well as of imperial Power, until they advanc'd to 
A. M. their Zenith of Glory, under Augustus C^sar, 
(in whofe Reign was born God's Messiah, the 

great 



4004. 



* While Eratosthenes and C o n o n flourilh'd in Greece, who were fucceeded 
by the excellent Apollonius of Perga, and many more before the Birth of Christ, 
who, though not working Mafons, yet were good Surveyors; or, at leaft, cultivated' 
Geometry, which is the folid Bafis of true Mafonry, and its Rule. 



( 25 ) 

great Archited: of the Church ) who having laid the 
World quiet, by proclaiming univerfal Peace, highly 
encourag'd thofe dexterous Artifts that had been bred 
in the Roman Liberty, and their learned Scholars and 
Pupils ; but particularly the great Vitruvius, the 
Father of all true Architects to this Day. 

Therefore it is rationally believ'd, that the glorious 
Augustus became the Grand-Master of the 
Lodge at Rome, having, belides his patronizing 
Vitruvius, much promoted the Welfare of the Fellow- 
Craftsmen, as appears by the many magnificent Buil- 
dings of his Reign, the Remains of M^hich are the Pat- 
tern and Standard of true Masonry in all future Times, 
as they are indeed an Epitome of the Asiatic, Egyptian, 
Grecian, and Sicilian Architedure, v^^hich we often ex- 
prefs by the Name of the Augustan Stile, 
and which we are now only endeavouring to imitate, 
and have not yet arriv'd to its Perfection. 

The OLD Records of Mafons afford large Hints of 
their Lodges, from the Beginning of the World, in the 
polite Nations, efpecially in Times of Peace, and when 
the Civil Powers, abhorring Tyranny and Slavery, gave 
due Scope to the bright and free Genius of their hap- 
py Subjects; for then always Mafons, above all other 
Artifts, were the Favourites of the Eminent, and be- 

D came 



(26) 

came neceflary for their grand Undertakings in any 
fort of Materials, not only in Stone, Brick, Timber, 
Plaifter; but even in Cloth or Skins, or whatever vv^as 
us'd for Tents, and for the various forts of Archi- 
tecture. 

Nor fhould it be forgot, that Painters alfo, and 
Statuaries, * were always reckon'd good Mafons, as 
much as Builders, Stone-cutters, Bricklayers, Carpen- 
ters, Joiners, Upholders or Tent-Makers, and a vaft 
many other Craftfmen that could be nam'd, who per- 
form according to Geometry, and the Rules of Building ; 

though 



* For it was not without good Reafon, the Ancients thought that the Rules of the 
beautiful Proportions in Building were copied, or taken from the Proportions of the Body- 
natural : Hence Phidias is reckon'd in the Number of ancient Mafons, for erefting 
the Statue of the Goddefs Nemesis at Rhamnus, io Cubits high; and that of Minerva 
at Athens, z6 Cubits liigh ; and that of Jupiter Olympius, fitting in his 
Temple in Achaia, between the Cities of Elis and Pisa, made of innumerable finall 
Pieces of Porphyry, fo exceeding grand and proportion'd, that it was reckon'd one of 
the Seven Wonders, as the famous Colossxis at Rhodes was another, and the great- 
eft Statue that ever was erefted, made of Metal, and dedicated to the Sun, 70 Cubits 
high, like a great Tower at a diftance, at the Entry of an Harbour, ftriding wide 
enough for the largeft Ships under fail, built in i z Years by Cares, a famous Mafon 
and Statuary of Sicyon, and Scholar to the great Lysippus of the fame Fraternity. This 
mighty Colossus, after ftanding 56 Years, fell by an Earthquake, and lay in Ruines, 
the Wonder of the World, till Anno Dom. 600, when the Soldan of Egypt carry'd 
oiF its Relicks, which loaded 900 Camels. 



( ^7 ) 

though none fmce Hiram A b i f has been renown'd 
for Cunning in all parts of Mafonry: And of this 
enough. 

But among the Heathen, while the noble Science 
Geometry * was duly cultivated, both before and after 
the Reign of Augustus, even till the Fifth Century of 
the Chriftian ^Era, Mafonry was had in great Efteem 
and Veneration : And while the Roman Empire con- 
tinu'd in its Glory, the Royal Art was carefully propa- 
gated, even to the illtima ^l)ule, and a Lodge 
ereded in almoft every Roman Garrifon j whereby they 
generoufly communicated their Cunning to the northern 
and weftern Parts of Europe, which had grown bar- 
barous before the Roman CoNgUEST, though we know 
not certainly how long; becaufe fome think there are 
a few Remains of good Mafonry before that Period 
in fome Parts of Europe, raifed by the original Skill 
that the iirft Colonies brought with them, as the Celtic 
Edifices, ered:ed by the ancient Gauls, and by the ancient 

Britains 



* By MenelauSj Claudius, Ptolomeus, (who was alfo the Prince of Astronomers) 
Plutarch, Eutocius (who recites the Inventions of Philo, Diocles, Nicomedes, Sphorus, 
and Heron the learned Mechanick) Ktesibius alfo, the Inventer of Pumps (celebrated by 
Vitruvius, Proclus, Pliny, and Athen^us) and Geminus, alfo equall'd by fome to 
Euclid; fo Diophantus, Nicomachus, Serenus, Proclus, Pappus, Theon, &c. all Geome- 
tricians, and the illuftrious Cultivaters of the mechanical Arts. 

D 2 



An. Dom. 
448. 



(28) 

Britains too, who were a Colony of the Celtes, long 
before the Romans invaded this Ifland. "^ 

But when the Goths and Vandals, that had 
never been conquer'd by the Romans, like a general 
Deluge, over-ran the Roman Empire, with warlike 
Rage and grofs Ignorance they utterly deftroy'd many 
of the fineft Edifices, and defac'd others, very few e- 
fcaping; as the Asiatic and African Nations fell un- 
der the fame Calamity by the Conquefts of the 
Mahometans, whofe grand Defign is only to con- 
vert the World by Fire and Sword, inftead of cultiva- 
ting the Arts and Sciences. 

.Thus, upon the Declenfion of the Roman Empire, 
when the British Garrisons were drain'd, the Angles and 
other lower Saxons, invited by the ancient Britons 
to come over and help them againft the Scots and 

P I c T s. 



* The Natives within the Roman Colonies might be firfl: inftrufted in bvulding of 
Citadels and Bridges, and other Fortifications neceffary; and afterwards, when their Set- 
tlement produc'd Peace, and Liberty, and Plenty, the Aborigines did foon imitate their 
learned and polite Conquerors in Mafonry, having then Leifure and ,a Difpofition to 
raife magnificent Struflures. Nay, even the Ingenious of the neighbouring Nations 
not conquer'd, learnt much from the Roman Garrifons in Times of Peace and open 
CorreJpondence, when they became emulous of tlie Roman Glory, and thankful that 
their being conquer'd was the means of recovering them from ancient Ignorance and Preju- 
dices, when they began to delight in the Royal Art. 



(^9) 

PicTs, at length fubdu'd the South Part of this 
Island, which they call'd England, or Land of the 
Angles ; who being a-kin to the Goths, or rather a fort 
of Vandals, of the fame warlike Difpofition, and as 
ignorant Heathens, encourag'd nothing but War, till 
they became Chriftians^ and then too late lamented 
the Ignorance' of their Fathers in the great Lofs of 
Roman Masonry, but knew not how to repair it. 

Yet becoming a free People (as the old Saxon Laws 
teftify) and having a Difpofition for Masonry, they 
foon began * to imitate the Asiatics, Grecians, and 
Romans, in ere6t:ing of Lodges and encouraging ' of 

Ma- 



* No doubt feveral Saxon and Scotish Kings, with many of the Nobility, great Gen- 
try, and eminent Clergy, became the Grand Masters of thofe early Lodges, from a 
mighty Zeal then prevalent for building magnificent Chriftian Temples ; which would alfo 
prompt them to enquire after the Laws, Charges, Regulations, Customs, and Usages, 
of the ancient Lodges, many of which might be prefei-v'd by Tradition, and all of 
them very likely in thofe Parts of the British Islands that were not fubdu'd by the 
Saxons, from whence in time they might be brought, and which the Saxons were more 
fond of, than carefiil to revive Geometry and Roman Masonry ; as many in all Ages 
have been more curious and careful about the Laws, Forms, and Usages of their refpec- 
tive Societies, than about the Arts and Sciences thereof. 

But neither what was convcy'd, nor the Manner how, can be communicated by writ- 
iiig; as no Man can indeed underftand it without the Key of a Fellow Craft. 



(3°) 

Mafons ; being taught, not only from the faithful Tradi- 
tions and valuable Remains of the Britons, but 
even by foreign Princes, in whofe Dominions the 
Royal Art had been preferv'd much from Gothic Ruins, 
An. Dom. particularly by Charles Martell King of 
He Dy'd. France, who, accordiug to the old Records of Mafons, 
fent over feveral expert Crafts-men and learned Archi- 
tects into England, at the Defire of the Saxon Kings : 
So that during the Heptarchy, the Gothic Architecture 
was as much encourag'd here, as in other Chriftian 
Lands. 

An. Dom. And though the many Invafions of the Danes 
^^' occafion'd the Lofs of many Records, yet' in Times of 
Truce or Peace they did not hinder much the good Work, 
though not perform'd according to the Augustan Stile j 
nay, the vaft Expence laid out upon it, with the cu- 
rious Inventions of the Artifts to fupply the Roman 
Skill, doing the beft they could, demonftrate their 
Efteem and Love for the Royal Art, and have ren- 
der'd the Gothic Buildings venerable, tho' 
not imitable by thofe that relifti the ancient Archi- 
tecture. 

An. Dom. And aftcr the Saxons and Danes were conquer'd by 
the Normans, as foon as the Wars ended and 
Peace was proclaim'd, the Gothic Mafonry was en- 
courag'd, 



( 31 ) 

courag'd, even in the Reign of the Conqueror,* and 
of his Son King William Rufus, who built West- 
minster-Hall, the largeft one Room perhaps in the 
Earth. 

Nor did the Barons Wars, nor the many bloody- 
Wars of the fubfequent Norman Kings, and their con- 
tending Branches, much hinder the moft fumptuous 
and lofty Buildings of thofe Times, rais'd by the great 
Clergy, (who enjoying large Revenues, could well 
bear the Expence) and even by the Crown too , 
for we read King Edward III. had an Officer call'd 
the King's Free-Mason, or General-Surveyor of his Buil- 
dings, whofe Name was Henry Yevele, employ'd About 

° ' ^ ^ ^ An. Dom. 

by that King to build feveral Abbies, and St. Stephen's 1362. 
Chappel at Westminster, where the Houfe of Com- 
mons now fit in Parliament. 

But for the further Inftrudion of Candidates and 
younger Brethren, a certain Record of Free-Mafons, 
written in the Reign of King Edward IV. of the About 
Norman Line, gives the following Account, viz. 1475. 

That 



* William the Conqueror built the Tower of London, and many ftrong Caftles 
in the Country, with feveral religious Edifices, whofe Example was follow'd by the No- 
bility and Clergy, particularly by Roger de Montgomery Earl of Arundel, the Arch- 
biflxop of York, the Bifliop of Durham, and Gundulph Bilhop of Rochester, a 
mighty Architeft. 



About 
An. Dom 



(3O 

That though the ancient Records of the Brotherhood 
in England were many of them deftroy'd or loft in the 
Wars of the Saxons and Danes, yet King Athelstan, 
(the Grandfon of King A l f r e d e the Great, a mighty 
Architect) the firft anointed King of England, and 
who tranflated the Holy Bible into the Saxon Tongue, 
930- when he had brought the Land into Reft and Peace, 
built many great Works, and encourag'd many Mafons 
from France, who were appointed Overseers thereof, and 
brought with them the Charges and Regulations of the 
Lodges preferv'd lince the Roman Times, who alfo 
prevail'd with the King to improve the Constitution 
of the English Lodges according to the foreign Model, 
and to increafe the Wages of working Masons. 

That the faid King's youngeft Son, Prince Edwin, 
being taught Mafonry, and taking upon him the Charges 
of a Master-Mason, for the Love he had to the 
faid Craft, and the honourable Principles whereon it is 
grounded, purchafed a free Charter of King Athelstan 
his Father, for the Mafons having a Correction among 
themfelves, (as it was anciently exprefs'd) or a Freedom 
and Power to regulate themfelves, to amend what 
might happen amifs, and to hold a yearly Communi- 
cation and General Aflembly. 

That accordingly Prince Edwin fummoned all the 
Mafons in the Realm to meet him in a Congregation 

at 



(33) 

at York, who came and compofed a General Lodge, of 
which he was Grand Master; and having 
brought with them all the Writings and Records extant, 
fome in Greek, fome in Latin, fome in French, and 
other Languages, from the Contents thereof that Assem- 
bly did frame the Constitution and Charges 
of an English Lodge, made a Law to preferve and ob- 
ferve the fame in all time coming, and ordain'd good 
Pay for working Masons, &c. 

That in procefs of time, when Lodges were more fre- 
quent, the Right Worfhipful the Master and Fellows, 
with Confent of the Lords of the Realm, (for mofl 
great Men were then Mafons) ordain'd, that for the 
future, at the Making or Admiflion of. a Brother, 
the Constitution fhould be read, and the 
Charges hereunto annex'd, by the Master or Warden; 
and that fuch as were to be admitted Master-Masons, 
or Mafters of Work, fhould be examin'd whether the)' 
be able of Cunning to ferve their refpedive Lords, as 
well the Loweft as the Higheft, to the Honour and 
Worfhip of the aforefaid Art, and to the -Profit of theii 
Lords ; for they be their Lords that employ and pay them 
for their Service and Travel. 

And besides many other things, the said Record adds. 
That thofe Charges and Laws of Free-Masons 
have been feen and perufed by our late Sovereign King 

E Henry 



(34) 

Henry VI. and by the Lords of his honourable Coun- 
cil, who have allow'd them, and faid that they be right 
good and reafonable to be holden, as they have been drawn 
out and colled:ed from the Records of ancient Times. * 

Now though in the third Year of the faid King 
Henry VI. while an Infant of about four Years old, 
the Parliament made an Ad, that affected only the 
working Masons, who had, contrary to the Statutes for 

Labourers, 



* In another Manuscript more ancient, we read : " That when the Master and 
"Wardens meet in a Lodge, if need be, the Sheriff of the County, or the Mayor 
"of the City, or Alderman of the Town, in which the Congregation is held, fhould 
"be made Fellow and Sociate to the Master, in help of him againft Rebels, and for 
"upbearing the Rights of the Reaki. 

"That enter'd Prentices at their making were charg'd not to be Thieves, or Thieves- 
" Maintainers ; that they ftiodd travel honcftly for their Pay, and love their Fellows as 
"themfelves, and be true to the King of England, and to the Realm, and to the Lodge. 

"That at fuch Congregations it ftiall be enquir'd, whether any Mafter or Fellow has 
"broke any of the Articles agreed to. And if the Offender, being duly cited to appear, 
"prove Rebel, and will not attend, then the Lodge fliall determine againft him that he 
''fliall forfwear (or renounce) his Masonry, and Ihall no more ufe this Craft; the which 
"if he prefume for to do, the Sheriff of the County fhall prifon him, and take all 
"his Goods into the King's Hands, till his Grace be granted him and iffued: For this 
" Caufe principaily have thefe Congregations been ordain'd, that as well the loweft as 
" the higheft Ihould be well and truly ferved in this Art forefaid throughout all the 
" Kingdom of England. 

"AMEr'j so mote it h? 



( 35 ) 

Labourers, confederated not to work but at their own 
Price and Wages; and becaufe fuch Agreements were 
fuppos'd to be made at the General Lodges, call'd in 
the Aft Cha pters and Congregations of 
Masons, it was then thought expedient to level the 
faid A6t againft the faid Congregations : * Yet when the 
faid King Henry VL arriv'd to Man's Eftate, the Ma- 
fons laid before him and his Lords the above-men- 
tion'd Records and Charges, who, 'tis plain, review'd 
them, and folemnly approv'd of them as good and 
reafonable to be holden : Nay, the faid King and his 

E 2 Lords 



* Tertio Henrici Sexti, Cap. I. An. Dom. 1425. 

Title. Mafons fhall not confederate themfelves in Chapters and Congregations. 

"Whereas by yearly CoNGREGATio>fs and Confederacies, made by the Mafor* 
"in their General Assemblies, the good Courfe and Effeft of the Statutes for Laboi 
" ers be openly violated and broken, in Subverfion of the Law, and to the great Dan. 
" age of all the Commons, our faid Sovereign Lord the King, willing in this Cafe t« 
•provide a Remedy, by the Advice and Affent aforefaid, and at the fpecial Requeft of 
" the Commons, hath ordained and eftabliflied, that fuch Chapters and Congregations 
" fhall not be hereafter holden ; and if any fuch be made, they that caufe fiich Chap- 
"ters and Congregations to be aflembled and holden, if they thereof be convift, flial. 
" be judged for Felons, and that the other Masons that come to fuch Chapters and 
"Congregations be punifli'd by Imprifonment of their Bodies, and make Fine and Ran- 
"fomc at the King's Will. 

Co. Inft. 3. p. 99 



(36) 

Lords muft have been incorporated with the Free- 
Masons, before they could make fuch Review of the Re- 
cords ; and in this Reign, before King Henry's Troubles, 
Mafons were much encourag'd. Nor is there any Inftance 
of executing that Ad: in that, or in any other Reign 
iince, and the Mafons never negleded their Lodges for 
it, nor ever thought it worth while to employ their 
NOBLE and EMINENT BRETHREN to havc it rcpcal'd ; becaufe 
the working Mafons, that are free of the Lodge, fcorn 
to be guilty of fuch Combinations ; and the other free 
Mafons have no Concern in Trefpaffes againft the Sta- 
tutes for Labourers. * 

The 



* That Aft was made in ignorant Times, when true Learning was a Crime, and 
Geometry condemn'd for Conjuration ; but it cannot derogate from the Honour of the 
ANCIENT Fraternity, who to be fure would never encourage any fuch Confederacy of 
their working Brethren. But by Tradition it is believ'd, that the Parliament-Men 
were then too much influenc'd by the illiterate Clergy, who were not accepted Mafons, 
nor underftood Architefture (as the Clergy of fome former Ages) and generally thought 
unworthy of this Brotherhood; yet thinking they had an indefeaiible Right to know all 
Secrets, by vertue of auricular Confession, and the Mafons never confeifing any thing 
thereof, the faid Clergy were highly offended, and at firft fufpefting them of Wickednefs, 
reprefented them as dangerous to the State during that Minority, and foon influenc'd the 
Parliament-Men to lay hold of fuch fuppofed Agreements of the working Mafons, for 
making an Aft that might feem to refleft Difhonour upon even the whole worshipful 
Fraternity, in whofe Favour feveral Afts had been both before and after that Period 
made. 



(37) 

The Kings of Scotland very much encourag'd 
the Royal Art, from the earlieft Times down to the 
Union of the Crowns, as appears by the Rernains of 
glorious Buildings in that ancient Kingdom, and by 
the Lodges there kept up without Interruption many 
hundred Years, the Records and Traditions of which 
teftify the great Refpeft of thofe Kings to this honour- 
able Fraternity, who gave always pregnant Evidence of 
their Love and Loyalty, from whence fprung the old 
Toafl: among Scots Mafons, viz. God bless the 
King and the Craft! 

Nor was the royal Example negleded by : the No- 
bility, Gentry, and Clergy of Scotland, who join'd 
in every thing for the good of the Craft and Brother- 
hood, the Kings being often the Grand Masters, 
until, among other things, the Masons of Scotland 
were impower'd to have a certain and fix'd Grand 
Master and Grand Warden, who had a Salary from 
the Crown, and alfo an Acknowledgment from every 
New Brother in the Kingdom at Entrance, whofe Bufi- 
nefs was not only to regulate what might happen amifs 
in the Brotherhood, but alfo to hear and finally deter- 
mine all Controverfies between Mason and Lord, to 
punifh the Mason, if he deferv'd it, and to oblige both 
to equitable Terms: At which Hearings, if the Grand 
Master was abfent (who was always nobly born) the 

Grand 



(38) 

Grand Warden prefided. This Privilege remain'd till 
1640. the Civil Wars, but is now obfolete; nor can it well 
be reviv'd until the King becomes a Mason, becaufe it 
1707. was not aftually exerted at the Union of the King- 
doms. 

Yet the great Care that the Scots took of true 
Mafonry, prov'd afterwards very ufeful to England; 
for the learned and magnanimous Queen Elizabeth, 
who encourag'd other Arts, difcourag'd this; becaufe, 
being a Woman, fhe could not be made a Mason, tho', 
as other great Women, fhe might have much employ'd 
Mafons, like Semiramis and Artemisia. * 

But upon her Demife, King James VI. of Scot- 
land fucceeding to the Crown of England, being 
a Mason King, reviv'd the English Lodges ; and as he 
was the First King of Great-Britain, he was 
alfo the First Prince in the World that recover'd the 
Roman Architecture from the Ruins of Gothick Igno- 
rance : 



* Elizabeth being jealous of any Affemblies of her Subjedb, whofe Bufmefs flic 
was not duly appriz'd of, attempted to break up the annual Communication of Masons, 
as dangerous to her Government: But, as old Mafons have tranfmitted it by Tradition, 
when the noble Perfons her Majefty had commiffioned, and brought a fufficient Pofle 
with them at York on St. John's Day, were once admitted into the Lodge, they 
made no ufe of Arms, and return'd the Queen a moft honourable Account of the ancient 
Fraternity, whereby her political Fears and Doubts were difpell'd, and flie let them alone, 
as a People much refpedted by the Noble and the Wife of all the polite Nations, but 
reglefted the Art all her Reign. 



( 39 ) 

ranee : For after many dark or illiterate Ages, as foon 
as all Parts of Learning reviv'd, and Geometry recover'd 
its Ground, the polite Nations began to difcover the 
Confufion and Impropriety of the Gothick Buildings; 
and in the Fifteenth and Sixteenth Centuries the 
Augustan Stile was rais'd from its Rubbifh in 
Italy, by Bramante, Barbaro, Sansovino, 
Sangallo, Michael Angelo, Raphael 
Urbin, Julio Romano, Serglio, Lab ago, 
ScAMozi, Vignola, and many other bright 
Architects ; but above all, by the Great P a l l a d i o , 
who has not yet been duly imitated in Italy, though 
juftly rival'd in England by our great Master-Mason 
Inigo Jones. 

But though all true Mafons honour the Memories 
of thofe Italian Architedrs, it muft be own'd, that the 
Augustan Stile was not reviv'd by any crown'd Head, 
before King James the Sixth of Scotland, and 
Firft of England, patroniz'd the faid glorious Inigo 
Jones, whom he employ'd to build his Royal Palace of 
White-Hall j and in his Reign over all Great- 
Britain, the Banoueting-House, as the firft 
piece of it, was only rais'd, which is the fineft one 
Room upon Earth; and the ingenious Mr. Nicholas 
Stone perform'd as Master-Mason under the Architedt 
[ones. 

Upon 



(4°) 

Upon his Demife, his Son King Charles I. 
being alfo a Mason, patroniz'd Mr. Jones too, and 
firmly intended to have carried on his Royal Father's 
Defign of White-Hall, according to Mr. Jones's 
Stile; but was unhappily diverted by the Civil Wars.* 
1666.' After the Wars were over, and the Royal Family re- 
ftor'd, true Masonry was likewife reftor'd; efpecially 
upon the unhappy Occafion of the Burning of London, 
Anno 1666; for^ then the City-Houfes were rebuilt 
more after the Roman Stile, when King Charles II. 

founded 



* The Plan and Prpfpcft of that glorious Defign being ftiU preferv'd, it is efteem'd 
by skiUful Architefts to excel that of any other Palace in the known Earth, for the 
Symmetry, Firmneis, Beauty, and Conveniency of Architefture ; as indeed all Master 
Jones's Dcfigns and Ereftions arc Originals, and at firll View difcover him to be 
the Architedl : Nay, his mighty Genius prevail'd with the Nobility and Gentry of all 
Britain, (for he was as much honour'd in Scotland as in England) to affeft and 
revive the ancient Stile of Masonry, too long neglcfted ; as appears by the many 
curious Fabricks of thofe Times, one of which fliall be now mention'd, the leaft, and 
perhaps one of the fineft, the famous Gate of the Physic Garden at Oxford, 
rais'd by HenryD anvers Earl of Danby, which coft his Lordship 
many hundred Pounds, and is as curious a little piece of Mafonry as ever was built 
there before or fmce, with the following Infcription on the Front of it, viz. 

GLORIA DEI OPTIMI MAXIMI, HONORI CAROLI REGIS, IN USUM 
ACADEMIiE ET REIPUBLIC^, ANNO 1632. 

HKNRICUS COMES DANBY. 



(41) 

founded the prefent St. Paul's Cathedral in London, 
(the old GoTHicK Fabrick being burnt down) much after 
the Style of St. Peter's at Rome, conduded by the 
ingenious Archited, Sir Christopher Wren. 
That King founded alfo his royal Palace at Green- 
wich, according to Mr. Inigo Jones's Defign (which 
he drew before he dy'd) conduced by his Son-in-Law 
Mr. Web: It is now turn'd into an Hofpital for Sea- 
men. He founded alfo Chelsea-College, an Hofpital 
for Soldiers; and at Edinburgh he both founded 
and finifh'd his royal Palace of Haly-Rood-House, 
by the Deiign and Condud: 'of Sir William BrXjce 
Bart, the Mafter of the Royal Works in Scotland:* 
So that belides the Tradition of old Mafons now 
alive, which may be rely'd on, we have much reafon 
to believe that King Charles II. was an Accepted 
Free-Mason, as every one allows he was a great Encou- 
rager of the Craftsmen. 

But in the Reign of his Brother King James II. 
though fome Roman Buildings were carried on, the 
Lodges of Free-Masons in London much dwindled into 
Ignorance, by not being duly frequented and cultiva- 
ted. 

* It was an ancient Royal-Palace, and rebuilt after the Augustan Style, fb neat, 
that, by competent Judges, it has been efteem'd the fineft Houfe belonging to the Crown: 
And though it is not very large, it is both magnificent and convenient, both' Infide and 
Outfide, with good Gardens, and a very large Park; and all other adjacent Accommo- 
dations. F 



(40 

ted. But* after the Revolution, Anno 1688, King 
William, though a warlike Prince, having a good 
Tafte of Architedture, carried on the aforefaid two fa- 
mous Hofpitals of Greenwich and Chelsea, built the fine 

part 



* But by the royal Example of his Brother King Charles II. the City of London 
erefted the famous MonumenTj where the Great Fire began, aU of folid Stone, 202 
foot high from the Ground, a Pillar of the Dorick Order, 15 Foot diameter, with a 
curious Stair-Cafe in the Middle of black Marble, and an iron Balcony on the Top (not 
unlike thofe of Trajan and Antoninus at Rome) from whence the City and Suburbs 
may be view'd; and it is the higheft Column we know upon Earth. Its Pedestal 
is 21 Foot fquare, and 40 Foot high, the Front of which is adorn'd with moft ingeni- 
ous Emblems in Basso Relievo, wrought by that famous Sculptor, Mr. Gabriel Cibber, 
with large Latin Infcriptions on the Sides of it; founded Anno 1671, and finifti'd Anno 

1677. 

In his Time alfo the Society of M.erchant Adventurers rebuilt the 
Royal Exchange of London (the old one being deftroy'd by the Fire) all of 
Stone, after the Roman Style, the fineft Strufture of that ufe in Europe, with the King's 
Statue to the Life, of white Marble, in the Middle of the Square (wrought by the 
famous Master-Carver and Statuary, Mr. Grinlin Gibbons, who was juftly 
admir'd all over Europe, for his rivalKng, if not furpaffing, the moft fam'd Italian 
Mafters) on the Pedeftal of which is the following Infcription, viz. 

Carolo II. C^SARi Britannico To Charles II. Emperor of Britain 

Patri^ Patri Father of his Country 

Recum Optimo Clementissimo Augustissimo Best most merciful and August of Kings 

Generis Humani Delicijs Delight of Mankind 

Utriusque Fortune Victori In Adversity and Prosperity unmov'd 

Pacis Europje Arbitro Umpire of Europe's Peace 

Marium Domino ac Vindici Commander and Sovereign of the Seas 
Societas MerCatorum Adventur. AnglijE The Society of Merchant Adventurers of England 

. QUiE PER CCCC JAM PROPE ANNOS WhiCH FOR NEAR CCCC YeaRS 

Regia Benignitate floret By Royal Favour Flourisheth 

Fidei Intemeratje et Gratitudinis JEternx Of unshaken Loyalty and eternal Gratitude 
Hoc Testimonium This Testimony 

Venerabunda Posuit Has in Veneration erected 

Anno Salutis Humanje MDCLXXXIV. In the Year of Salvation MDCLXXXIV. 

Nor 



(43 ) 

part of his royal Palace ofHAMPToisr Court, and 
founded and finifh'd his incomparable Palace at Loo in 
Holland, &c. And the bright Example of that glorious 
Prince, (who by moft is reckon'd a Free-Mason) did in- 
fluence the Nobility, the Gentry, the Wealthy and the 
Learned of Great-Britain, to afFed: much the 
Augustan Style ; as appears by a vaft Number of moft 
curious Edifices ere Work 
to T'ask that hath been accuftom'd to Journey. 

I None 



( 53 ) 



None fhall difcOver Envy at the Profperity of a Brother, nor fuppknt him, or put 
him out of his Work, if he be capable to finifli the fame ; for no Man can finifli 
another's Work fo much to the Lord's Profit, unlefs he be thoroughly acquainted with 
the Defigns and Draughts of him that began it. 

When a Fellow-Craftsman is chofen Warden of the Work under the Master, he 
fliall be true both to Master and Fellows, ftiall carefully overfee the Work in the 
Master's Abfence to the Lord's Profit ; and his Brethren fhall obey him. 

All Masons employM, (hall meekly receive their Wages without Murmuring or Mutiny, 
and not defert the Master till the Work is finilh'd. 

A YOUNGER Brother fhall be inftrufted in working, to prevent fpoiling the Materials 
for want of Judgment, and for encreafing and continuing of Brotherly Love. 

All the Tools ufed in working fhall be approved by the Grand Lodge. 

No Labourer fhall be employ'd in the proper Work of Masonry ; nor fhall Sttt 
iHaSOnS work with thofe that are not free, without an urgent Neceflity; nor fhall 
they teach Labourers and unaccepted Mafons, as they fhould teach a Brother or Fellow. 



VI. of Behaviour, viz. 



I. In the Co^ge while conatittttctr. 

You are not to hold private Committees, or feparate Converfation, without Leave from 
the Master, nor to talk of any thing impertinent or unfeemly, nor interrupt the Master 
or Wardens, or any Brother fpeaking to the Master: Nor behave yourfelf ludicroufly 
or jeftingly while the Lodge is engaged in what is ferious and folemn ; nor ufe any 
unbecoming Language upon any Pretence whatfoever; but to pay due Reverence to your 
Master, Wardens, and Fellows, and put them to worfhip. 

If any 



(54) 



If any Complaint be brought, the Brother found guilty ftiall Hand to the Award and 
Determination of the Lodge, who are the proper and competent Judges of all fuch 
Controverlies, (unlefs you carry it by Appeal to the Grand Lodge) and to whom 
they ought to be referr'd, unlefs a Lord's Work be hinder'd the mean while, in which 
Cafe a particular Reference may be made ; but you mufl: never go to Law about what 
concerneth Masonry, without an abfolute Neceffity apparent to the Lodge. 



2. i3£l)ailiOttr after the Lodge is over and the BntljHn not gone. 

You may enjoy yourfelves with innocent Mirth, treating one another according to 
Ability, but avoiding all Excefs, or forcing any Brother to eat or drink beyond his 
Inclination, or hindering him from going when his Occafions call him, or doing or faying 
any thing offenfive, or that may forbid an easy and free Converfation ; for that would 
blalt our Harmony, and defeat our laudable Purpofes. Therefore no private Piques or 
Quarrels muft be brought within the Door of the Lodge, far lefs any Quarrels about 
Religion, or Nations, or State Policy, we being only, as Masons, of the Catholick 
Religion above-mention'd ; we are alio of all Nations, Tongues, Kindreds, and Lan- 
guages, and are refolv'd againft (ill |3olUttks, as what never yet conduc'd to the 
Welfare of the Lodge, nor ever will. This Charge has been always ftriftly enjoin'd 
and obferv'd; but efpecially ever fince the Reformation in Britain, or the Diflent 
and Seceffion of thefe Nations from the Communion of Rome. 



3. l9£l)CtDI0tttr when Brethren meet without Strangers, but not in a 

Colrgc form'Ir. 

You are to falute one another in a courteous manner, as you will be inftrudled, 

calling each other Brother, freely giving mutual Inftruftion as flial! be thought expedient, 

without being overfccn or overheard, and without encroaching upon each other, or 

t derogating 



( 55 ) 



derogating from that Refped which is due to any Brother, were he not a Mafon: For 
though all Masons are as Brethren upon the fame Level, yet Masonry takes no Honour 
from a Man that he had before; nay rather it adds to his Honour, efpecially if he has 
deferv'd well of the Brotherhood, who muft give Honour to whom it is due, and avoid 
ILL Manners. 



4. BfljaoiOltr in Prefence of Strangers not MaSOWS. 

You fliall be cautious in your Words and Carriage, that the moft penetrating Stranger 
fliall not be able to difcover or find out what is not proper to be intimated; and 
fometimes you fliall divert a difcourfe, and manage it prudently for the Honour of the 
WORSHIPFUL Fraternity. 

F z 



5. JacljCXDiotHr at H o m e, and in your Neighbourhood. 

You are to aft as becomes a moral and wife Man; particularly, not to let your 
Family, Friends, and Neighbours know the Concerns of the Lodge, &c. but wifely to 
confult your own Honour, and that of the ancient Brotherhood, for Reafons not to be 
mention'd here. You muft alfo confult your Health, by not continuing together too late, 
or too long from home, after Lodge Hours are paft ; and by avoiding of Gluttony or 
Drunkennefs, that your Families be not negledled or injured, nor you difabled from 
working. 



6. I3cll(Xt)i0Ur towards a strange Brother. 

You are cautioufly to examine him, in fuch a Method as Prudence fhall direft you, 
that you may not be impos'd upon by an ignorant falfe Pretender, whom you are to 
rejeft with Contempt and Derifion, and beware of giving him any Hints of Knowledge. 

But if you difcover him to be a true and genuine Brother, you are to refpeft him 
accordingly ; and if he is in want, you muft relieve him if you can, or elfe diredl him 
how he may be reliev'd : You muft employ him fome Days, or elfe recommend him to 

be em- 



(56) 



be employ'd. But you are not charged to do beyond your Ability, only to prefer a 
poor Brother, that is a good Man and true, before any other poor People in the 
fame Circumftances. 

Finally, All thefe dljargeS you are to obferve, and alfo thofe that Ihall be 
communicated to you in another way; cultivating Brotherly-Love, the Foundation 
and Cape-Hone, the Cement and Glory of this ancient Fraternity, avoiding all Wrang- 
ling and Quarrelling, all Slander and Backbiting, nor permitting others to flander any 
honeft Brother, but defending his Charafter, and doing him all good OiEces, as far as is 
confiftent with your Honour and Safety, and no farther. And if any of them do you 
Injury, -you muft apply to your own or his' Lodge; and from thence you may appeal 
to the Grand Lodge at the Quarterly Communication, and from thence to the 
annual Grand Lodge, as has been the ancient laudable Conduft of our Fore-fathers 
in every Nation; never taking a legal Course but when the Cafe cannot be otherwife 
decided, and patiently liftning to the honeft and friendly Advice of Master and Fellows, 
when they would prevent your going to Law with Strangers, or would excite you to put 
a ipeedy Period to all Law-Suits, that fo you may mind the Affair of Masonry 
with the more Alacrity and Succefs; but with refpeft to Brothers or Fellows at Law, 
the Master and Brethren Ihould kindly offer their Mediation, which ought to be thank- 
fully fubmitted to by the contending Brethren; and if that Submiffion is imprafticable, 
they muft however carry on their Process, or Law-Suit, without Wrath and Rancor 
(not in the common way) faying or doing nothing which may hinder Brotherly Love, 
and good Offices to be renew'd and continu'd; that all may fee the benign Influence 
of Masonry, as all true Masons have done from the Beginning of the World, and 
will do to the End of Time. 



2lmeii so mote it be. 



POST- 



( 57 ) 



POSTSCRIPT. 

A Worthy Brother, learned in the Law, has communicated to the Author (while 
this Sheet was printing) the Opinion of the Great Judge Coke upon the Act 
againft Masons, 3 Hen. VI. Cap. I. which is Printed in this Boole, Page 35, and 
which Quotation the Author has compar'd with the Original, viz. 



Coke's Institutes, third Part, Fol. 99. 
The Cause wherefore this Offence was made Felony, is for that the .good Course 

AND EprECT of the STATUTES OF LABOURERS WERE THEREBY VIOLATED AND BROKEN. NoW 

(fais MY Lord Coke) all the Statutes concerning Labourers, before this Aft, and where- 
unto this Aft doth refer, are repeal'd by the Statute of 5 Eliz. Cap. 4. whereby the 
Cause and End of the making of this Act. is taken away; and confequently this Act 
is become of no Force or Effeft ; for, cessante ratione Legis, cessat ipsa Lex : And 
the Indiftment of Felony upon this Statute muft contain, that those Chapters and 
Congregations were to the violating and breaking of the good Course and Effect 
OF THE Statutes of Labourers ; which now cannot be fo alledg'd, becaufe thefe Statutes 
be repealed. Therefore this would be put out of the Charge of Justices of Peace, 
written by Master Lambert, pag. 227. 

This Quotation confirms the Tradition of old Masons, that this moll learned Judge 
really belong'd to the ancient Lodge, and was a faithful Brother. 




H 



(58) 



Compiled firft by Mr. GeorgePayne, 

Anno 1720, when he was (Bxaxih-^MlaQitX^ and ap- 
prov'd by the Grand-Lodge on St. John Baptist's 
Day, Anno 172 i, at Stationer's-Hall, London; 
when the most noble Prince John Duke of 
Montagu was unanimoufly chofen our 
(^ranb^Jttaster for the Year enfuing; who chofe 
John Beal M. D. his Deputy Grand-Master; 
( Mr. JosiAH Villeneau ) were chofen by the Lodge 
( Mr. Thomas Morris, jun. ^Grand-Wardens. 
And now, by the Command of our faid Right 
Worshipful Gran d-M aster Montagu, the 
Author of this Book has compar'd them with, and 
reduc'd them to the ancient Records and immemorial 
Usages of the Fraternity, and digefted them into 
this new Method, with feveral proper Explications, 
for the Ufe of the Lodges in and about London and 
Westminster. 

HE @ranb^itla0tcr, or his Deputy, hath Authority and 
Right, not only to be prefent in any true Lodge, but alfo to pre- 
fxde wherever he is, with the Master of the Lodge on his Left- 
hand, and to order his Grand- Wardens to attend him, who are not 
to aft in particular Lodges as Wardens, but in his Prefence, and 
at his Command; becaule there the Grand-Master may command the Wardens 

of that 




(59) 



of that Lodge, or any other Brethren he pleafeth, to attend and aft as his Wardens 

PRO TEMPORE. 

II. The MASTER of a particular Lodge has the Right and Authority of congregating 
the Members of his Lodge into a Chapter at pleafure, upon any Emergency or Occur- 
rence, as well as to appoint the time and place of their ufual forming: And in cale 
of Sicknefs, Death, or neceffary Abfence of the Master, the fenior Warden fliall aft as 
Master pro tempore, if no Brother is prefent who has been Master of that Lodge 
before; for in that Cafe the absent Master's Authority reverts to the laft Master then 
prefent; though he cannot aft until the faid senior Warden has once congregated the 
Lodge, or in his Abfence the junior Warden. 

III. The Master of each particular Lodge, or one of the Wardens, or fome other 
Brother by his Order, fliall keep a Book containing their By-Laws, the Names of theii 
Members, with a Liil of all the Lodges in Town, and the ufual Times and Places of 
their forming, and all their Tranfaftions that are proper to be written. 

IV. No Lodge fliall make more than Five new Brethren at one Time, nor any 
Man under the Age of Twenty-five, who mull: be alfo his own Matter; unlefs by a 
Diljpenfation from the Grand-Master or his Deputy. 

V. No Man can be made or admitted a Member of a particular Lodge, without 
previous notice one Month before given to the faid Lodge, in order to make due 
Enquiry into the Reputation and Capacity of the Candidate ; unlefs by the Diipenfation 
aforefaid. 

VI. But no Man can be enter'd a Brother in any particular Lodge, or admitted to 
be a Member thereof, without the unanimous Consent of all the Members of that 
Lodge then prefent when the Candidate is propos'd, and their Confent is formally ask'd 
by the Master ; and they are to fignify their Consent or Dissent in their own prudent 
way, either virtually or in form, but with Unanimity : Nor is this inherent Privilege 
fubjeft to a Diipenfation ; becaufe the Members of a particular Lodge are the bell Judges 
of it; and if a fraftious Member fliould be impos'd on them, it might fpoil their 

H 2 Harmony, 



(6o) 



Harmony, or hinder their Freedorn ; or even break and difperfe the Lodge ; which ought 
to be avoided by all good and true Brethren. 

VII. Every new Brother at his making is decently to cloath the Lodge, that is, all 
the Brethren prefent, and to depofite fomething for the Relief of indigent and decay'd 
Brethren, as the Candidate fliall think fit to beftow, oyer and above the fmall 
Allowance ftated by the By-Laws of that particular Lodge ; which Charity fliall be 
lodg'd with the Master or Wardens, or . the Cashier, if the Members think fit to 
chufe one. 

And the Candidate fliall alfo folemnly promife to fubmit to the Constitutions, the 
Charges, and Regulations, and to fuch other good Usages as fliall be intimated to therii 
in Time and Place convenient. 

Vni. No Set or Number of Brethren fliall withdraw or feparate themfelves from the 
Lodge in which they were made Brethren, or were afterwards admitted Members, unlefs 
the Lodge becomes too numerous ; nor even then, without a Difpenfation from the 
Grand-Master or his Deputy : And when they are thus feparated, they muft either 
immediately join themfelves to fuch other Lodge as they fliall like beft, with the unani- 
mous Confent of that other Lodge to which they go (as above regulated) or elfe they 
muft obtain the Grand-Master's Warrant to join in forming a new Lodge. 

If any Set or Number of Masons fliall take upon themfelves to form a Lodge with- 
out the Grand-Master's Warrant, the regular Lodges are not to countenance them, 
nor own them as fair Brethren and duly form'd, nor approve of their Afts and 
Deeds; but muft treat them as Rebels, until they humble themfelves, as the Grand- 
Master fliall in liis Prudence direft, and until he approve of them by his Warrant, 
which muft be fignify'd to the other Lodges, as the Cullom is when a new Lodge is 
to be regifter'd in the List of Lodges. 

IX. But if any Brother fo far misbehave himfelf as to render his Lodge uneafy, he 
fliall be twice duly admonifti'd by the Master or Wardens in a form'd Lodge ; and 
if he will not refrain his Imprudence, and obediently fubmit to the Advice of the 
Brethren, and reform what gives them Offence, he fliall be dealt with according to the 

By-Laws 



( 6i ) 



By-Laws of that particular Lodge, or elfe in fuch a manner as the Quarterly Commu- 
nication fhall in their great Prudence think fit; for which a new Regulation may be 
afterwards made. 

X. The Majority of every particular Lodge, when congregated, fliall have the Privi- 
lege of giving Instructions to their Master and Wardens, before the afTembling of the 
Grand Chapter, or Lodge, at the three Quarterly Communications hereafter mention'd, 
and of the Annual Grand Lodge too ; becaufe their Master and Wardens are their 
Reprefentatives, and are fuppoftd to (peak their Mind. 

XI. All PARTICULAR LoDOES are to obferve the fame Usages as much as poffible ; in 
order to which, and for cultivating a good Underftanding among Free-Masons, fome 
Members out of every Lodge fhall be deputed to vifit the other Lodges as often as 
fhall be thought convenient. 

XII. The ®ranb-.Coi(gC confiils of, and is form'd by the Masters and Wardens 
of all the regular particular Lodges upon Record, with the Grand-Master at their 
Head, and his Deputy on his Left-hand, and the Grand-Wardens in their proper 
Places J and muft have a Quarterly Communication about Michaelmas, 
Christmas, and Lady-Day, in fome convenient Place, as the Grand-Master fhall appoint, 
where no Brother fhall be prefent, who is not at that time a Member thereof, without 
a Difpenfation ; and while he flays, he fhall not be allow'd to vote, nor even give his 
Opinion, without Leave of the Grand-Lodge ask'd and given, or unlefs it be duly ask'd 
by the faid Lodge. 

All Matters are to be determin'd in the Grand-Lodge by a Majority of Votes, each 
Member having one Vote, and the Grand-Master having two Votes, unlefs the faid 
Lodge leave any particular thing to the Determination of the Grand-Master for the 
fake of Expedition. 

XIII. At the faid Quarterly Communication, all Matters that concern the Fraternity 
in general, or particular Lodges, or fingle Brethren, are quietly, fedately, and maturely to 
be difcours'd of and tranfafted : Apprentices mufl be admitted Masters and Fellow- 
Craft only here, unlefs by a Difpenfation. Here alfo all Differences, that cannot be 

made 



(62) 



made up and accommodated privately, nor by a particular LodgEj are to be ferioufly 
confidered and decided: And if any Brother thinks himfelf aggrieved by the Decifion 
of this Board, he may appeal to the annual Grand-Lodge next enfuing, and leave his 
Appeal in Writing, with the Grand-Master, or his Deputy, or the Grand-Wardens. 

Here alfo the Master or the Wardens of each particular Lodge fliall bring and produce 
a Lift of fuch Members as have been made, or even admitted in their particular Lodges 
fince the laft Communication of the Grand-Lodge : And there fliall be a Book kept by 
the Grand-Master, or his Deputy, or rather by fome Brother whom the Grand-Lodge 
ihall appoint for Secretary, wherein ihall be recorded all the Lodges, with their 
ufual Times and Places of forming, and the Names of all the Members of each Lodge; 
and all the Affairs of the Grand-Lodge that are proper to be written. 

They fliall alfo confider of the moft prudent and effeftual Methods of coUefling and 
difpofing of what Money fliall be given to, or lodged with them in Charity, towards 
the Relief only of any true Brother fallen into Poverty or Decay, but of none elfe : 
But every particular Lodge fliall dilpofe of their own Charity for poor Brethren, 
according to their own By-Laws, until it be agreed by all the Lodges (in a new Regu- 
lation) to carry in the Charity coUefted by them to the Grand-Lodge, at the 
Quarterly or Annual Communication, in order to make a common Stock of it, for 
the more handfome Relief of poor Brethren. 

They fliall alfo appoint a Treasurer, a Brother of good worldly Subftance, who 
ftiall be a Member of the Grand-Lodge by virtue of his Office, and fliall. be always 
prefent, and have Power to move to the Grand-Lodge any thing, efpecially what concerns 
his Office. To him fliall be committed all Money rais'd for Charity, or for any other 
Ufe of the Grand-Lodge, which he fliall write down in a Book, with the refpettive 
Ends and Ufes for which the feveral Sums are intended ; and fliall expend or disburfe 
the fame by fuch a certain Order fign'd, as the Grand-Lodge fliall afterwards agree to 
in a new Regulation : But he fliall not vote in chufing a Grand-Master or Wardens, 
though in every other Tranfaftion. As in like manner the Secretary fliall be a Member 

•of the 



(63) 



of the Grand-Lodge by virtue of his OiEce, and vote in every thing except in chufing 
a Grand-Master, or Wardens. 

The Treasurer and Secretary fliall have each a Clerk, who muft be a Brother and 
Fellow-Craft, but never muft be a IMfember of the Grand-Lodge, nor fpeak without 
being allow'd or defir'd. 

The Grand-Master, or his Deputy, {hall always command the Treasurer and Secretary, 
with their Clerks and Books, in order to fee how Matters go on, and to know what is 
expedient to be done upon any emergent Occafion. 

Another Brother (who muft be a Fellow-Craft) fhould be appointed to look after the 
Door of the Grand-Lodge ; but fliall be no Member of it. 

But thefe Offices may be farther explain'd by a new Regulation, when the Neceffity 
and Expediency of them may more appear than at prefent to the Fraternity. 

XIV. If at any Grand-Lodge, ftated or occafional, quarterly or annual, the 
©rttllO-'illflBtcr and his Deputy fliould be both abfent, then the prefent Master of a 
Lodge, that has been the longeft a Free-Mason, fliall take the Chair, and prefide as 
Grand-Master pro tempore ; and fliall be vefted with all his Power and Honour for 
the time ; provided there is no Brother prefent that has been Grand-Master formerly, 
or Deputy Grand-Master ; for the laft Grand-Master prefent, or elfe the laft" Deputy 
prefent, fliould always of right take place in the Ablence of the prefent Grand-Master 
and his Deputy. 

XV. In the Gran d-L o d g e none can aft as Wardens but the Grand- Wardens 
themfelves, if prefent ; and if abfent, the Grand-Master, or the Perfon who prefides in 
his Place, fliall order private Wardens to aft as . Grand- Wardens pro tempore, whofe 
Places are to be fupply'd by two Fellow-Craft of the fame Lodge, call'd forth to aft, 
or fent thither by the particular Master thereof; or if by him omitted, then they 
fliall be call'd by the Grand-Master, that fo the Grand-Lodge may be always compleat. 

XVI. The Grand-Wardens, or any others, are lirft to advife with the Deputy 
about the Affairs of the Lodge or of the Brethren, and not to apply to the Grand- 
Master 



(64) 



Master without the Knowledge of the Deputy, unlefs he refufe his Concurrence in any 
certain neceffary Affair ; in which Cafe, or in cafe of any Difference between the 
Deputy and the Grand- Wardens, or other Brethren, both Parties are to go by Concert 
to the Grand-Master, who can eafily decide the Controverfy and make up the Differ- 
ence by virtue of his great Authority. 

The Grand-Master fliould receive no Intimation of Buiineis concerning Masonry, but 
from his Deputy firft, except in fuch certain Cafes as his Worfliip can well judge of; 
for if the Application to the Grand-Master be irregular, he can eafily order the Grand- 
Wardens, or any other Brethren thus applying, to wait upon his Deputy, who is to 
prepare the Bufinefs fpeedily, and to lay it orderly before his Worship. 

XVIL No ®ranil-iilTastcr, Deputy Grand-Mafter, Grand-Wardens, Treasurer,^ 
Secretary, or whoever afts for them, or in their ftead pro tempore, can at the fame 
time be the Master or Warden of a particular Lodge; but as foon as any of them 
has honourably difcharg'd his Grand Office, he returns to that Poft or Station in his 
particular Lodge, from which he was call'd to officiate above. 

XVIII. If the Deputy Grand-Master be lick, or neceffarily abfent, the 
Grand-Master may chufe any Fellow-Craft he pleafes to be his Deputy pro tempore : 
But he that is chofen Deputy at the Grand-Lodge, and the Grand-Wardens too, can- 
not be difcharg'd without the Caufe fairly appear to the Majority of the Grand- 
Lodge; and the (wtCiXW''Ml(tSltV, if he is uneafy, may call a Grand- Lodge on 
purpofe to lay the Caufe before them, and to have the'r Advice and Concurrence : In 
which cafe, the Majority of the Grand-Lodge, if they cannot reconcile the IluttStEt 
and his Deputy or his Wardens, are to concur in allowing the lluCI0t£r to difcharge 
his faid Deputy or his faid Wardens, and to chufe another Deputy immediately ; and 
the faid Grand-Lodge fhall chufe other Wardens in that Cafe, that Harmony and Peace 
may be preferv'd. 

XIX. If the (Sitanb-'MastCt Ihould abufe his Power, and render himfelf unworthy 
of the Obedience and Subjeftion of the Lodges, he fliall be treated in a way and 
manner to be agreed upon in a new Regulation ; becaufe hitherto the ancient Fraternity 

f have 



( 65 ) 



have had no occafion for it, their former Grand-Masters having all behaved them- 
felves worthy of that honourable Office. 

XX. The Grand-Master, with his Deputy and Wardens, fliall (at leafl; once) go 
round and vifit all the Lodges about Town during his Mastership. 

XXI. If the ©ranb-iHaBter die during his Mastership, or by Sicknefs, or by 
being beyond Sea, or any other way fliould be render'd uncapable of difcharging his 
Office, the Deputy, or in his Abfence, the Senior Grand-Warden, or in his 
Abfence the Junior, or in his Abfence any three prefent Masters of Lodges, Ihall join 
to congregate the Grand-Lodge immediately, to advife together upon that Emergency, 
and to fend two of their Number to invite the last Grand-Master to refume 
his Office, which now in courfe reverts to him ; or if he refufe, then the next last, 
and fo backward : But if no former Grand-Master can be found, then the Deputy 
ftiall a6t as Principal, until another is chofen; or if there be no Deputy, then the 
oldeft Master. 

XXII. The IBntljfClt of all the Lodges in and about London and Westminster, 
fliall meet at an Annual Communication and Feast, in fome convenient Place, 
on St. John Baptist's Day, or elfe on St. John Evangelist's Day, as the Grand- 
Lodge fliall think fit by a new Regulation, having of late Years met on St. John 
Baptist's Day : Provided, 

The Majority of the Masters and Wardens, with the Grand-Master, his Deputy 
and Wardens, agree at their Quarterly Communication, three Months before, that there 
fliall be a Feast, and a General Communication of all the Brethren: For if either 
the Grand-Master, or the Majority of the particular Masters, are againft it, it muft 
be dropt for that Time. 

But whether there fliall be a Feast for all the Brethren, or not, yet the ®ranir 
Cobge muft meet in fome convenient Place annually on St. John's Day; or if it 
be Sunday, then on the next Day, in order to chufe every Year a new Grand- 
Master, Deputy, and Wardens. 

I XXIII. 



(66) 



XXIII. If it be thought expedient, and the Grand-Master, with the Majority 
of the Masters and Wardens, agree to hold a Grand Feast, according to the 
ancient laudable Cuftom of Masons, then the ®ranll-U)arIleU3 fhall have the care of 
preparing the Tickets, feal'd with the Grand-Master's Seal, of difpofing of the Tickets, 
of receiving the Money for the Tickets, of buying the Materials of the Feast, of finding 
out a proper and convenient Place to featt in ; and of every other thing that concerns 
the Entertainment. 

But that the Work may not be too burthenfome to the two Grand-Wardens, and 
that all Matters may be expeditioufly and fafely managed, the Grand-Master, or his 
Deputy, ftiall have power to nominate and appoint a certain Number of Stewards, as 
his Worship Ihall think fit, to aft in concert with the two Grand- Wardens ; all things 
relating to the Feaft being decided amongft them by a Majority of Voices ; except the 
Grand-Master or his Deputy interpofe by a particular Direftion or Appointment. 

XXIV. The Wardens and SttXHdVilS Ihall, in due time, wait upon the Grand- 
Master, or his Deputy, for Diredtions and Orders about the Premifles ; but if his 
Worship and his Deputy are fick, or neceflarily abfent, they fliall call together the 
Masters and Wardens of Lodges to meet on purpofe for their Advice and Orders ; or 
elle they may take the Matter wholly upon themfelves, and do the bell: they can. 

The Grand- Wardens and the Stewards are to account for all the Money they receive, 
or expend, to the Grand-Lodge, after Dinner, or when the Grand-Lodge ftiall think fit 
to receive their Accounts. 

If the ®rflnl(^ittllX0t£r pleafes, he may in due time fummon all the Masters and 
Wardens of Lodges to confult with them about ordering the Grand-Feast, and about 
any Emergency or accidental thing relating thereunto, that may require Advice ; or elfe 
to take it upon liimfelf altogether. 

XXV. The Masters of Lodges ftiall each appoint one experienc'd and difcreet Fellow- 
Craft of his Lodge, to compofe a Committee, confifting of one from every Lodge, 
who ftiall meet to receive, in a convenient Apartment, every Perfon. that brings a Ticket, 

and 



(67) 



and fliall have Power to difcourfe him, if they think fit, in order to admit him, or 
debar him, as they fliall fee caufe : Provided they fend no Man away before they have 
acquainted all the Brethren within Doors with the Reafons thereof, to avoid Miftakes ; 
that Co no true Brother may be debarr'd, nor a falfe Brother, or mere Pretender, 
admitted. This Committee mull meet very early on St. John's Day at the Place, even 
before any Perfons come with Tickets. 

XXVI. The Grand- Master fliall appoint two or more trtlSt^ JBrft^WtX to 
be Porters, or Door-keepers, who are alfo to be early at the Place, for fome good 
Reafons ; and who are to be at the Command of the Committee. 

XXVII. The Grand-Wardens, or the Stewards, fliall appoint beforehand fuch a 
Number of Brethren to ferve af Table as they think fit and proper for that Work ; 
and they may advife with the Masters and Wardens of Lodges about the moft proper 
Perfons, if they pleafe, or may take in fuch by their Recommendation ; for none are to 
ferve that Day, but free and accepted Masons, that the Communication may be free 
and harmbniousi 

XXVIII. All the Members of the Grand-Lodge muft be at the Place long before 
Dinner, with the Grand-Master, or his Deputy, at their Head, who fliall retire, ?nd 
form themfelves. And this is done in order. 



1. To receive any Appeals duly lodg'd, as above regulated, that the Appellant may 
be heard, and the Affair may be amicably decided before Dinner, if poffible ; but if it 
cannot, it muft be delay'd till after the new Grand-Master is elefted; and if it can- 
not be decided after Dinner, it may be delay'd, and referr'd to a particular Committee, 
that fliall quietly adjuft it, and make Report to the next Quarterly Communication, 
that Brotherly-Love may be preferv'd. 

2. To prevent any Difference or Difguft which may be feared to arife that Day; 
that' no Interruption may be given to the Harmony and Pleafure of the Grand Feast. 

3. To confult about whatever concerns the Decency and Decorum of the Grand- 

I z Assembly, 



(68) 



Assembly, and to prevent all Indecency and ill Manners, the Aflembly being promif- 
cuous. 

4. To receive and confider of any good Motion, or any momentous and important 
Affair, that fhall be brought from the particular Lodges, by their Reprefentatives, the 
feveral Masters and Wardens. 

XXIX. After thefe things are difcufs'd, the (BtavUl^MaettX and his Deputy, the 
Grand-Wardens, or the Stewards, the Secretary, the Treasurer, the Clerks, and every 
other Perlbn, fliall withdraw, and leave the Masters and Wardens of the particular 
Lodges alone, in order to confult amicably about elefting a New Grand-Master, or con- 
tinuing the present, if they have not done it the Day before ; and if they are unanimous 
for continuing the present Grand- Matter, his Worship, fliall be call'd in, and humbly 
defir'd to do the Fraternity the Honour of ruling them for the Year enfiiing : And 
after Dinner it will be known whether he accepts of it or not : For it fliould not be 
difcover'd but by the Eleftion itfelf. 

XXX. Then the Masters and Wardens, and aU the Brethren, may converfe promif- 
cuoufly, or as they pleafe to fort together, until the Dinner is coming in, when every 
Brother takes his Seat at Table. 

XXXL Some time after Dinner the Grand-Lodge is form'd, not in Retirement, 
but in the Prefence of all the Brethren, who yet are not Members of it, and mull not 
therefore fpeak until they are defir'd and allow'd. 

XXXII. If the ©ranb-illaSttr of laft Year has confented with the Master and 
Wardens in private, before Dinner, to continue for the Year enfuing ; then one of the 
Grand-Lodge, deputed for that purpofe, shall represent to all the Brethren his 
Worship's good Government, &c. And turning to him, ftiall, in the Name of the 
Grand-Lodge, humbly requeft him to do the Fraternity the great Honour (if 
nobly born, if not) the great Kindness of continuing to be their Grand-Master for 
the Year enfuing. And his Worship declaring his Confcnt by a Bow or a Speech, as 
he pleafes, the laid deputed Member of the Grand-Lodge fliall proclaim him 
©ranb^iilaBtfr, and all the Members of the Lodge fliall falute him in due Form. 

4 And 



( 69 ) 



And all the Brethren fliall for a few Minutes have leave to declare their Satiffaftion, 
Pleafure, and Congratulation. 

XXXIII. But if either the Master and Wardens have not in private, this Day 
before Dinner, nor the Day before, defir'd the last Cirfttlll^iinastir to continue in 
the Mastership another Year ; or if he, when defir'd, has not confented : Then, 

The LAST Grand-Master fliall nominate his Succeflbr for the Year enfuing, who, 
if unanimoufly apprbv'd by the Grand-Lodge, and if there prefent, fliall be proclaim'd, 
faluted, and congratulated the new ®rftnb^iEtla0t£t as above hinted, and immediately 
inllali'd by the last Grand-Master, according to Ufage. 

XXXIV. But if that Nomination is not unanimoufly approv'd, the new Grand-Master 
fliall be chofen immediately by Ballot, every Master and Warden writing his Man's 
Name, and the last Grand-Master writing his Man's Name too ; and the Man, whofe 
Name the last Grand-Master fliall firfl: take out, cafually or by chance, fliall be 
Grand-Master for the Year enluing; and if prefent, he fliall be proclaim'd, faluted, 
and congratulate^, as above hinted, and forthwith inftall'd by the last Grand-Master, 
according to Ufage. 

XXXV. The last Grand-Master thus continued, or the tt£tD Grand- 
Master thus inftall'd, fliall next nominate and appoint his Deputy Grand-Mafter, 
either the laft or a new one, who fliall be alfo declar'd, faluted and congratulated as 
above hinted. 

The (Sranlbf^illciBtEf fliall alfo nominate the new Grand-Wardens, and if 
unanimoufly approv'd by the Grand-Lodge, fliall be declar'd, faluted, and congratulated, 
as above hinted; but if not, they fliall be chofen by Ballot, in the fame way as the 
Grand-Master: As the Wardens of private Lodges are alfo to be chofen by Ballot 
in each Lodge, if the Members thereof do not agree to their Master's Nomination. 

XXXVI. But if the Brother, whom the prefent • Grand-Master fliall nominate for 
his Successor, or whom the Majority of the Grand-Lodge fliall happen to chufe by 

Ballot, 



(70) 



Ballot, is, by Sicknefs or other neceflkry Occafion, abfent from the Grand-Feast, he 
cannot be proclaim'd the New Grand-Master, unlefs the old Grand-Master, or 
fome of the Masters and Wardens of the ©rftltO-itOugC can vouch, upon the Honour 
of a Brother, that the faid Perfon, fo nominated or chofen, will readily accept of the 
faid Office; in which cafe the old (^VaVliS'-MCLSttV ftiall aft as Proxy, and fliall 
nominate the Deputy and Wardens in his Name, and in his Name alfo receive the 
ufual Honours, Homage, and Congratulation 

XXXVir. Then the ©raitir^illastcr Ihall allow any Brother, Fellow-Craft, or 
Apprentice to fpeak, direfting his Difcourfe to his Worship ; or to make any Motion 
for the good of the Fraternity, which lliall be either immediately confider'd and finifli'd, 
or elfe referr'd to the Confideration of the Grand-Lodge at their next Communication, 
ftated or occafional. When that is over, 

XXXVIII. The Grand-Master or his Deputy, or fome Brother appointed by 
him, fliall harangue all the Brethren, and give them good Advice : And laftly, after fome 
other Tranfaftions, that cannot be written in any Language, the Brethren may go away 
or ftay longer, as they pleafe. 

XXXIX. Every Annual Grand-Lodge has an inherent Power and Authority to 
make new Regulations, or to alter thefe, for the real Benefit of this ancient Fra- 
ternity : Provided always that the old Land-Marks be carefully preserv'd, and 
that fuch Alterations and new Regulations be propofed and agreed to at the third 
Quarterly Communication preceding the Annual Grand Feast ; and that they be 
offered alfo to the Perufal of all the Brethren before Dinner, in writing, even of the 
youngeft Apprentice ; the Approbation and Confent of the Majority of all the Brethren 
prefent being abfblutely neceffary to make the fame binding and obligatory ; which muft, 
after Dinner, and after the new Grand-Master is inftall'd, be folemnly defir'd; as it 
was defir'd and obtain'd for thefe Regulations, when propos'd by the Grand- 
Lodge, to about 150 Brethren, on St. John Baptist's Day, 1721. 



POST 



(70 



POSTSCRIPT. 

Here follows the Manner of conftituting a ISHm 
Cobge, as pradis'd hj his Grace the Duke of 
Wharton, the prefent Right Worshipful (^ran5- 
JHaster, according to the ancient Ufages of Masons. 

A 53'fU) iCoirge, for avoiding many Irregularities, fliould be folemnly conftituted by 

the Grand-Master, with his Deputy and Wardens; or in the Grand-Master's 

Abfence, the Deputy fliall aft for his Worship, and fliall chufe fome Master of a Lodge 

to affift him; or in cafe the Deputy is abfent, the Grand-Master fliaM call forth foilie 

Master of a Lodge to aft as Depxtfy pro tempore. 

The Candidates, or the new Mailer and Wardens, being yet among the Fellow- 
Craft, the Grand-Master fliall ask his Deputy if he has examin'd them, and finds 
the Candidate Master well skill'd in the noble Science and the royal Art, and duly 
inftrufted in our Mysteries, Sec. 

And the Deputy anfwering in the affirmative, he fliall (by the Grand-Master's Order) 
take the Candidate from among his Fellows, and prefent him to the Grand-Master ; 
faying. Right worshipful Grand-Master, the Brethren here desire to be form'd 
into a new Lodge; and I present this my worthy Brother to be their Mafter, whom 
I know to be of good Morals and great Skill, true and trusty, and a Lover of 
the whole Fraternity, wheresoever dispers'd over the Face of the ®(lrtl). 

Then the Grand-Master, placing the Candidate on his left Hand, having ask'd 
and obtain'd the unanimous Confent of all the Brethren, fliall fay ; I constitute and 
form these good Brethren into a new Lodge, and appoint you the Mafter of it, 

NOT doubting of YOUR CAPACITY AND CaRE TO PRESERVE THE Cement OF THE L O D G E, 

&c. with fome other Expreffions that are proper and ufual on that Occafion, but not 
proper to be written. 

Upon 



( 72 ) 



Upon this the Deputy fhall rehearfe the Charges of a Master, and the Grand- 
Master fliall ask the Candidate, faying. Do you submit to these Charges, as Matters 
HAVE DONE IN ALL Ages ? And the CANDIDATE fignifying his cordial Submiffion thereunto, 
the ©ranb'^illciSttt fliall, by certain fignificant Ceremonies and ancient Ufages, inftall 
him, and prefent him with the Constitutions, the Lodge-Book, and the Instruments 
of his Office, not all together, but one after another; and after each of them, the 
Grand-Master, or his Deputy, Ihall rehearfe the fliort and pithy Charge that is fuitable 
to the thing prefented. 

After this, the Members of this new Lodge, bowing all together to the Grand-Master, 

fliall return his Worship Thanks, and immediately do their Homage to their new Master, 

and fignify their Promife of Subjeftion and Obedience to him by the ufual Congratu- 
lation. 

The Deputy and the Grand-Wardens, and any other Brethren prefent, that are not 
Members of this new Lodge, fliall next congratulate the new Master ; and he fliall 
return his becoming Acknowledgments to the Grand-Master iirft, and to the reft 
in their Order. 

Then the Grand-Master defires the new Master to enter immediately upon the 
Exercife of his OiEce, in chufmg his Wardens : And the New Master calling forth 
two Fellow-Craft, prefents them to the Grand-Master for his Approbation, and to the 
new Lodge for their Confent. And that being granted. 

The SENIOR or junior Grand-Warden, or fome Brother for him, fliall rehearfe 
the Charges of Wardens ; and the Candidates being folemnly ask'd by the. new Master, 
fliall fignify their Submiffion thereunto. 

Upon which the New Master, prefenting them with the Instruments of their 
Office, fliall, in due Form, inftall them in their proper Places; and the Brethren of 
that NEW Lodge fliall fignify their Obedience to the new Wardens by the ufual Con- 
gratulation. 

And this Lodge being thus compleatly conftituted, fliall be regifter'd in the 
Grand-Master's Book, and by his Order notify'd to the other Lodges. 



(73) 



APPROBATION. 

^\)tUaS by the Confufions occafion'd in the jSttitOn, JDattisI), and J^'omtttn 
Wars, the Records of Masons have been much vitiated, the Free Mafons of 
England twice thought it neceffary to correft their Constitutions, Charges, and Regu- 
lations ; firft in the Reign of King Athelstan the 0ajtOn, and long after in the 
Reign of King Edward IV. the JTormait : And Whereas the old Constitutions 
in England have been much interpolated, mangled, and miferably corrupted, not only 
with falfe Spelling, but even with many falfe Fafts and grofs Errors in History and 
Chronology, through Length of Time, and the Ignorance of Transcribers, in the 
dark illiterate Ages, before the Revival of Geometry and ancient Architecture, to the 
great Offence of all the learned and judicious Brethren, whereby alfo the Ignorant have 
been deceiv'd. 

And our late Worthy C^ranir-JllaStEir, his Grace the Duke of Montagu, 
having order'd the Author to perufe, correft, and digeft, into a new and better Method, 
the History, Charges, and Regulations, of the ancient Fraternity; He has 
accordingly examin'd feveral Copies from Italy and Scotland, and fundry Parts of Eng- 
land, and from thence, (tho' in many things erroneous) and from feveral other ancient 
Records of Masons, he has drawn forth the above-written new Constitutions, with the 
(jri)arg£0 and General K-EQUlattOnSf. And the Author having fubmitted the whole 
to the Perufal and Correftions of the late and present Deputy Grand-Masters, and 
of other learned Brethren ; and alfo of the Masters and Wardens of particular Lodges 
at their Quarterly Communication: He did regularly deliver them to the late Grand- 
Master himfelf, the faid Duke of Montagu, for his Examination, Correftion, 
and Appi-obation ; and His Grace, by the Advice of feveral Brethren, order'd the fame 
to be handfomely printed for the ufe of the Lodges, though they were not quite ready 
for the Prefs during his Mastership. 

Therefore We, the present Grand- Master of the Right Worlhipful and 
moft ancient Fraternity of Free and Accepted Masons, the Deputy Grand-Master, 
the Grand- Wardens, the Masters and Wardens of particular Lodges (with the Confent 
of the -Brethren and Fellows in and about the Cities of London and Westmin- 
ster) having alfo perufed this Performance, Do join our laudable Piedeccffors in our 
folemn Approbation thereof, as what We believe will fully anfwer the End propofcd ; 
all the valuable Things of the old Records being retain'd, the Errors in History and 
Chronology correfted, the falfe Fails and the improper Words omitted, and the whole 
digefted in a new and better Method. 

K And 



(74) 

And we ordain That thefe be receiv'd in every particular Lodge under our Cognizance, 
as the Only Constitutions of Free and Accepted Masons amongft us, to be 
read at the maidng of new Brethren, or when the Master Ihall think fit ; and which 
the NEW Brethren fliould perufe before they are made. 

Philip Duke of Wharton ^xaxib'^MlOi&Ux^ 
J. T. Desaguliers L. L. D. and F . R . S . 

Deputy Grand-Master. 
Io0l)ua Stm00n ) ^ 

ivsMi' /E I* r Grand- Wardens. 

uiiiham j^atDkin0) 



Wardens. 



Wardens. 



And the Masters and 

I. Thomas Morris, sen. Mafler, 
John Bristow ) -^ 
Abraham Abbot ) 

II. Richard Hail Mailer. 

Philip Wolverston ) -.xr 

T T-» [ Wardens. 

John Doyer ) 

III. John Turner Mailer. 
Anthony Sayer 
Edward Cale 

IV. Mr. George Payne Mailer. 
Stephen Hall M. D. > ■ 
Francis Sorell Efq; ) 

V. Mr. Math. Birkhead Mailer. 

Francis Baily ) ,xr 

•M A S- Wardens. 

Nicholas Abraham ^ 

VI. William Read Mailer. 

John Glover ) ,i, 

T, r^ } Wardens. 

Robert Cordell ) 

VII. Henry Branson Mailer. 
Henry Lug , 
John Townshend ' 

VIII. Mailer. 
Jonathan Sisson 
John Shipton 

IX. G E o R G e Owen M. D. Mailer. 
Eman Bowen \ 
John Heath 

X. Mailer. 
John Lubton 
Richard Smith 



Wardens of particular Lodges, viz. 

XI. Francis Earl of Dalkeith Mailer, 
Capt. Andrew Robinson ] 



Wardens. 



Ward 



Wardens. 



Wardens. 



■ Wardens. 



Col. Thomas Inwood ^ 
XIL John B e a l M. D. and F. R. S. Mailer. 
Edward Pawlet Elq ; ) ■™- 



Charles More Efq 



n- 



JUN. Mailer. 



r.\ 



Wardens. 



Joseph Ridler ) -.ir 

i r> f Wardens. 

John Clark S 

XIV. Thomas Robbe Esq ; Mailer. 

Thomas Grave ) -.vr 

T) T ) Wardens. 

Bray Lane ^ 

XV. Mr. John Shepherd Mailer. 

John Senex ) ,^7- 

T T) t Wardens. 

John Bucler ) 

XVI. John Georges Esq ; Mailer. 
Robert Gray Efq; 
Charles Grymes Elq; 

XVII. James Anderson A. M. 

The :2lutl)or of this 33ook. 

GwiNN Vaughan Efq; 
Walter Greenwood Efq; 

XVIII. Thomas Harbin Mailer. 
William Attley , 
John Saxon ' 

XIX. Robert Capell Mailer. 

Isaac Mansfield ) -.ir 
William Bly ^ Wardens. 

XX. John Gorman Mailer. 
Charles Garey 
Edward Morphey ' 



Mailer. 



Wardens. 



Wardens. 



Wardens. 



(75) 

THE 

M A S T E R's SONG: 

OR, THE 

H 13 TORY of MASONRY. 

By the ^utl)or. 

To be fung with a Chorus, when the Master fliall give leave, either one Part only, 

or all together, as he pleafes. 



PART I. 



A DAM, the firft of humane Kind, 
■^*- Created with Geometry 
Imprinted on his Royal Mind, 

Inftrufted foon his Progeny 
Cain and S e t h, who then improv'd 

The lib'ral Science in the Art 
Of Architecture, which they lov'd. 

And to their Offspring did impart. 

II. 
Cain a City fair and ftrong 

Firft built, and call'd it Consecrate, 
From Enoch's Name, his eldeft Son, 

Which all his Race did imitate : 
But GODLY Enoch, of Seth's Loins, 

Two Columns rais'd with mighty Skill: 
And all his Family enjoins 

True Colonading to fuUfil. 

III. 

Our Father Noah next appear'd, 

A Mason too divinely taught ; 
And by divine Command uprear'd 

The Ark, that held a goodly Fraught : 
'Twas built by true Geometry, 

A Piece of Architecture fine; 
Helpt by Hs Sons, in number Three, 

Concurring in the grand Design. 



IV. 



So from the gen'ral Deluge none 

Were fav'd, but Masons and their Wives; 
And all Mankind from them alone 

Defcending, Architecture thrives ; 
For they, when multiply'd amain. 

Fit to difperfe and fill the Earth, 
In Shin a r's large and lovely Plain 

To Masonry gave fecond Birth. 

V. 
For moft of Mankind were employ'd. 

To buil^ the City and the Tow'r; 
The Gen'ral Lodge was overjoy'd. 

In fuch Effefts of Masons Pow'r; 
'Till vain Ainbition did provoke 

Their Maker to confound their Plot; 
Yet tho' with Tongues confus'd they fpoke. 

The learned Art they ne'er forgot. 

(Hljortts. 

Who can unfold the Royal Art? 

Or fing its Secrets in a Song? 
They're fafely kept in Mason's Heart, 

And to the ancient Lodge belong. 



[Stop here to drink the prefent Grand- 
Master's Health. 

K 2 PART 



(76) 



PART II. 



L 



^T^HUS when from Babel they difperfe 

In Colonies to diftant Climes, 
All Masons true, who could rehearfe 

Their Works to thofe of after Times; 
King N I M R o D fortify'd his Realm, 

By Caftles, Towr's, and Cities fair: 
Mitzra'm, who rul'd at Egypt's Helm, 

Built Pyramids ilupendous there. 

11. 

Nor Japhet, and his gallant Breed, 

Did lefs in Masonry prevail ; 
Nor Shem, and thofe that did fucceed 

To promis'd Bleffings by Entail; 
For Father Abram brought from Ur 

Geometry, the Science good ; 
Which he reveal'd, without demur. 

To all defcending from his Blood. 

III. 
Nay Jacob's Race at length were taught. 

To lay afide the Shepherd's Crook, 
To ufe Geometry were brought, 

Whilfl: under Phar'oh's cruel Yoke ; 
'Till M o s E s Master-Mason rofe. 

And led the Holy Lodge from thence, 
AU Masons train'd, to whom he chofe. 

His curious Learning to difpenfe. 

IV. 
A H o L I a B and Bezaleel, 

Infpired Men, the Tent uprear'd; 
Where the Shechinah chofe to dwell, 

And Geometrick Skill appear'd : 



And when thefe valiant Masons fiU'd 
Canaan, the learn'd Phenicians knew 

The Tribes of Isra'l better skill'd 
In Architecture firm ^nd true. 

V. 
For D agon's Houfe in Gaza Town, 

Artfully propt by Columns two ; 
By Samson's mighty Arms puU'd down 

On Lords Philistian, whom it flew ; 
Tho' 'twas the fineft Fabrick rais'd 

By Canaan's Sons, could not compare 
With the Creator's "rEMPLE prais'd. 

For glorious Strength and Strufture fair. 

VI. 
But here we flop a while to toaft 

Our Master's Health and Wardens both; 
And warn you all to fhun the Coafl: 

Of Samson's Shipwrackt Fame and Troth ; 
His Secrets once to Wife difclos'd. 

His Strength was fled, his Courage tam'd. 
To cruel Foes he was expos'd. 

And never was a Mason nam'd. 

Who can unfold the Royal Art ? 

Or fing its Secrets in a Song? 
They're fafely kept in Mason's Heart, 

And to the ancient Lodge belong. 

[Stop here to drink the Health of the 
Master and Wardens of this particular 
Lodge. 

PART 



( 77 ) 



PART III. 



I. 



TXT E fing of Masons ancient Fame, 

When FOURSCORE Thousand (EfttftB^ 
(nun flood. 
Under the Masters of great Name, 

Three Thousand and six Hundred good, 
Employ'd by Solomon the Sire, 
And Gen'ral Master-Mason too ; 
As Hiram was in ilately Tyre, 
Like Salem built by Masons true. 

II. 

The Royal Art was then divine. 

The Craftsmen counfell'd from above. 
The Temple did all Works outlhine. 

The wond'ring World did all approve ; 
Ingenious Men, from every Place, 

Came to furvey the glorious Pile ; 
And, when return'd, began to trace. 

And imitate its lofty Style. 

III. 

At length the Grecians came to know 

Geometry, and learnt the Art, 
Which great Pythagoras did Ihow, 

And glorious Euclid did impart; 
Th' amazing Archimedes too. 

And many other Scholars good ; 
'Till ancient Romans did review 

The Art, and Science underftood. 
IV. 
But when proud Asia they had quell'd. 

And Greece and Egypt overcome. 
In Architecture they excell'd. 

And brought the Learning all to Rome; 



Where wife Vitruvius, Master prime 
Of Architects, the Art improv'd. 

In Great Augustus' peaceful Time, 
When Arts and Artists were belov'd. 

V. 
They brought the Knowledge from the East ; 

And as they made the Nations yield. 
They Jpread it thro' the North and West, 

And taught the World the Art to build; 
Witnefs their Citadels and Tow'rs, 

To fortify their Legions fine. 
Their Temples, Palaces, and Bow'rs, 

That fpoke the Malons Grand Design. 

VI. 

Thus mighty Eastern Kings, and fome 

Of Abram's Race, and Monarchs good. 
Of Egypt, Syria, Greece, and Rome, 

True Architecture underftood : 
No wonder then if Masons join. 

To celebrate thofe Mason-Kings, 
With folemn Note and flowing Wine, 

Whilft ev'ry Brother jointly fings. 

€l)oro0. 

Who can unfold the Royal Art? 

Or fing its Secrets in a Song? 
They're fafely kept in Mason's Heart, 

And to the ancient Lodge belong. 

[Stop here to drink to the glorious Memory 
of Emperors, Kings, Princes, Nobles, 
Gentry, Clergy, and learned Scholars, 
that ever propagated the Art. 

PART 



(78) 



PART IV. 



/^ H ! glorious Days for Masons wife, 
^■^ O'er all the Roman Empire when 
Their Fame, refounding to the Skies, 

Proclaim'd them good and ufeful Men; 
For many Ages thus employ'd. 

Until the ®0tl)3, with warlike Rage, 
And brutal Ignorance, deftroy'd 

The Toil of many a learned Age. 

II. 

But when the conqu'ring ®Otl)0 were brought 

T'embrace the Christian Faith, they found 
The Folly that their Fathers wrought. 

In lofs of Architecture found. 
At length their Zeal for stately Fanes, 

And wealthy Grandeur, when at Peace, 
Made them exert their utmoft Pains, 

Their ®Otl)ick 33«ililhig3 to upraife. 

III. 
Thus many a fumptuous lofty Pile 

Was rais'd in every Christian Land, 
Tho' not conform to Roman Style, 

Yet which did Reverence command : 
The King and (Erttft agreeing ftill. 

In well-form'd Lodges to fupply 
The mournful Want of Roman Skill 

With their new fort of Masonry. 

IV. 
For many Ages this prevails. 

Their Work is Architecture deem'd ; 
In England, Scotland, Ireland, Wales, 

The Craftsmen highly are efteem'd. 



By Kings, as iHcXStEtS of the Lodge, 
By many a wealthy noble |P££f, 

By Lord and Laird, by |]ri£0t and Judge, 
By all the People every where. 

V. 
So Mafons ancient Records tell. 

King ^tljelstan, of Saxon Blood, 
Gave them a Charter free to dwell 

In Lofty Lodge, with Orders good. 
Drawn from old Writings by his Son, 

Prince Edwin, General-Master bright. 
Who met at York the Brethren foon. 

And to that Lodge did all recite. 

VI. 

Thence were their Laws and Charges fine 
In ev'ry Reign obferv'd with Care, 

Of Qaxan, JDanial), 3S'orman Line, 

Till British Crowns united were : 
The Monarch Firft of this whole Isle 

Was learned James, a Mason King, 
Who First of Kings reviv'd the Style 

Of Great Augustus: Therefore fing. 

Who can unfold the Royal Art? 

Or fmg its Secrets in a Song? 
They're fafely kept in Mason's Heart, 

And to the ancient Lodge belong. 

[Stop here to drink to the happy Memory 
of all the Revivers of the ancient Au- 
gustan Style. 

PART 



( 79 ) 



PART V. 



I. 



^TpHUS tho' in Italy the Art 
-'• From ®Otl)i£k HobblBl) firft was 

(rais'd j 
And Great Palladio did impart 

A Styie by Masons juftly prais'd : 
Vet here his mighty Rival Jones, 

Of British Architefts the Prime, 
Did build fuch glorious Heaps of Stones, 

As ne'er were match'd fince Cesar's Time. 

n. 

King Charles the First, a Mason too. 

With feveral Peers and wealthy Men, 
Employ'd him and his Craftsmen true, 

'Till wretched Civil Wars began. 
But after Peace and Crown reftor'd, 

Tho' London was in Alhes laid. 
By Masons Art and good Accord, 

A liner London rear'd its Head. 

III. 

King Charles the Second raifed then 

The fineft Column upon Earth, 
Founded St. Paul's, that ftately Fane, 

And Royal Change, with Joy and Mirth : 
But afterwards the Lodges fail'd. 

Till Great Nassau the Taft reviv'd, 
Whofe bright Example fo prevail'd. 

That ever fince the Art has thriv'd. 



IV. 



Let other Nations boaft at will. 

Great Britain now will yield to none. 
For true Geometry and Skill, 

In building Timber, Brick, and Stone ; 
For Architecture of each fort. 

For curious Lodges, where v/e find 
The Noble and the Wise refort. 

And drink with Craftsmen true and kind. 

V. 
Then let good Brethren aU rejoice. 

And fill their Glafs with chearful Heart; 
Let them exprefs with grateful Voice 

The Praifes of the wond'rous Art: 
Let ev'ry Brother's Health go round. 

Not Fool or Knave, but Mason true; 
And let our Master's Fame refound. 

The NOBLE Duke of Montagu. 

Who can unfold the Royal Art? 

Or fing its Secrets in a Song? 
They're fafely kept in Mason's Heart, 

And to the ancient Lodge belong. 



( 8o ) 



THE 

W A R D E N's SONG: 

OR, ANOTHER 

History of MASONRY. 

C O M P O S'D 

Since the moft noble Prince Philip Duke of Wharton 
was chofen Grand-Master. 



By the ^utl}or. 



To be fung and play'd at the Quarterly Communication. 



I. 

■^TTTHEN e'er we are alone. 

And ev'ry Stranger gone. 
In Summer, Autumn, Winter, Spring, 
Begin to play, begin to fing. 
The Mighty Genius of the lofty Lodge, 
In ev'ry Age 

That did engage (Judge, 

And well inipir'd the Prince, the Priest, the 
The Noble and the Wise to join 
In rearing Masons Grand Design. 

II. 
The Grand Design to rear. 
Was ever Masons Care, 
From Adam down before the Flood, 
Whofe Art old Noah underftood. 
And did impart to Japhet, Shem, and Ham, 
Who taught their Race 
To build apace 
Proud Babel's Town and Tow'r, until it came 
To be admir'd too much, and then 
Diiperfed were the Sons of Men. 



III. 

But tho' their Tongues confus'd 

In diftant Climes they us'd. 
They brought from Shinar Orders good. 
To rear the Art they underftood : 
Therefore fmg firft the Princes of the Ifles ; 

Next Belus Great, 

Who iixt his Seat 
In old Assyria, building ftately Piles; 
And Mitzraim's Pyramids among 
The other Subjefts of our Song. 

IV. 

And Shem, who did inftil 
The ufeful wond'rous Skill 
Into the Minds of Nations great : 
And Abram next, who did relate 
Th' Assyrian Learning to his Sons, that when 
In Egypt's Land, 
By Pharaoh's Hand, 
Were roughly taught tg be moft skilful Men ; 
Till their Grand-Master Moses rofe. 
And them deliver'd from their Foes. 

I V. 



(8i) 



But who can fing his Praife, 
Who did the Tent upraife ? 
Then fing his Workmen true as Steel, 
Aholiab and Bezaleel ; 
Sing Tyre and Sydon, and Phenecians old. 
But Samson's Blot 
Is ne'er forgot : 
He blabb'd his Secrets to his Wife, that fold 
Her Husband, who at laft pull'd down 
The Houfe on all in Gaza Town. 

VI. 

But Solomon the King 

With folemn Note we fing. 
Who rear'd at length the Grand Design, 
By Wealth, and Pow'r, and Art divine; 
Helpt by the learned Hiram Tyrian Prince, 

By Craftsmen good. 

That underftood 
Wife Hiram Abif's charming Influence: 
He aided Jewish Masters bright, 
Whofe curious Works none can recite. 

VII. 
Thefe glorious Mason Kings 
Each thankful Brother fings. 
Who to its Zenith rais'd the Art, 
And to all Nations did impart 
The ufeful Skill: For from the Temple fine. 
To ev'ry Land, 

And foreign Strand, (Design; 

The Craftsmen march'd, and taught the Grand 
Of which the Kings, with mighty Peers, 
And LEARNED Men, wcrc Ovcpfeers. 



VIII. 
Diana's Temple next. 
In Lesser Asia fixt ; 
And Babylon's proud Walls, the Seat 
OfNEBucHADNEZAR the Great; 
The Tomb of Mausolus, the Carian Kino; 
With many a Pile 
Of lofty Style 
In Africa and Greater Asia, fing. 
In Greece, in Sicily, and Rome, 
That had thofe Nations overcome. 

IX. 

Then fing Augustus too. 

The Gen'ral Master true. 
Who by ViTRUvius did refine 
And {prcad the Masons Grand Design 
Thro' North and West; till ancient Bri- 

The Royal Art (tons chofe 

In ev'ry Part, 
And Roman Architedture could difclofe; 
Until the QaXOXlS warlike Race 
Dcftroy'd the Skill of many an Age. 



X. 

At length the ©Otl)ick JStgU 

Prevail'd in Britain's Ifle, 
When Masons Grand Design reviv'd. 
And in their well form'd Lodges thriv'd, 
Tho' not as formerly in Roman Days: 

Yet fmg the Fanes 

Of Saxons, Bants, (the Praife 

Of Beats, UIeIcI), Irisl); but fing firft 

Of Athelstan and Edwin Prince, 
Our Master of great Influence. 

L XL 



( 8z ) 



XI. 



And eke the Normatt K'mgB 

The British Mason fings; 
Till Roman Style revived there. 
And British Crowns united virere 
In learned James, a Mason King, who rais'd 
Fine Heaps of Stones 
By Inigo Jones, 
That rival'd wife Palladio, juftly prais'd 
In Italy, and Britain too. 
For Architefture firm and true. 

XII. 
And thence in ev'ry Reign 
Did Masonry obtain 
With Kings, the Noble and the Wife, 
Whofe Fame refounding to the Skies, 
Excites the prefent Age in Lodge to join. 
And Aprons wear 
With Skill and Care, 
To raife the Masons ancient Grand Design, 
And to revive th' Augustan Style 
In many an artful glorious Pile. 



XIII. 

From henceforth ever fmg 

The Craftsman and the King, 
With Poetry and Musick fweet 
Refound their Harmony compleat ; 
And with Geometry in skilful Hand, 

Due Homage pay. 

Without Delay, (Grand: 

To Wharton's noble Duke our Master 
He rules the Free-born Sons of Art, 
By Love and Friendlhip, Hand and Heart. 

CHORUS. 

Who can rehearfe the Praife, 

In foft Poetick Lays, 
Or folid Profe, of Masons true. 
Whole Art tranfcends the common View? 
Their Secrets, ne'er to Strangers yet expqs'd, 

Preferv'd fliall be 

By Masons Free, 
And only to the ancient Lodge difclos'd; 
Eccaufe they're kept in Masons Heart 
By Brethren of the Royal Art. 



To fill up this Page, it is thought not amifs to infert here a Paragraph from an old 
Record of Masons, viz. The Company of Masons, being otherwife termed Free Ma- 
sons, of auncient Staunding and good Reckonning, by means of affable and kind Meetings 
diverfe Tymes, and as a loving Brotherhood fliowld ufe to doe, did frequent this 
mutual Assembly in the Tyme of King Henry V. the izth Year of his moil gracious 
Reign. And the faid Record defcribing a Coat of Arms, much the fame with That 
of the London Company of Freemen Mafons, it is generally believ'd that the faid 
Company is defcended of the ancient Fraternity; and . that in former Times no Man 
was made Free of that Company until he was inllall'd in fome Lodge of Free and 
Accepted Masons, as a neceflary Qualification. But that laudable Praftice feems to have 
been long in Difliietude. The Brethren in foreign Parts have alfo difcover'd that feveral 
noble and ancient Societies and Orders of Men have derived their Charges and Regu- 
lations from the Free Masons, (which are now the moft ancient Order upon Earth) 
and perhaps were originally all Members too of the faid ancient and worlhipful Fra- 
ternity. But this will more fully appear in due time. 



(83) 



THE 



FELLOW-CRAFTS SONG: 

By our Brother Charles Delafaye Esg ; 

To be" Sung and Play'd at the (BiXaniS^Siasi. 



H 



AIL Masonry! thou Craft divine ! 
Glory of Earth, from- Heav'n reveal'd ; 
Which doll with Jewels precious fhine. 
From all but Masons Eyes conceal'd. 

(JEl)Oru0. 

Thy Praifes due who can rehearfe 
In nervous Profe, or ilowing Verfe ? 

II- 

As Men from Brutes diftinguiflit are, 

A Mason other Men excels; 
For what's in Knowledge choice and rare 

But in his Breaft fecurely dwells? 

(S-i)oxtts. 

His filent Breast and faithful Heart 
Prcierve the Secrets of the Art. 

III. 
From fcorching Heat, and piercing Cold ; 

Fi-om Bealls, whole Roar the Forell rends j 
From the Aflaults of Warriours bold 

The Mafons Art Mankind defends. 

(£l)ortts 

Be to this Art due Honour paid. 
From which Mankind rec^ves fuch Aid. 



IV. 

Enfigns of State, that feed our Pride, 
Diftinftions troublefome, and vain ! 

By Masons true are laid afide : 

Art's free-born Sons fuch Toys difdain; 

Ennobled by the Name they bear, 
Dillinguilht by the Badge they wear. 

V. 
Sweet Fellowlhip, from Envy free : 

Friendly Converft of Brotherhood; 
The Lodge's lafting Cement be ! 

Which has for Ages firmly ftood. 

A Lodge, thus ouilt, for Ages pall 
Has lafted, and will ever laft. 

VI. 

Then in our Songs be Juftice done 
To thofe who have enrich'd the Art, 

From JClbctl down to Burlington, 
And let each Brother bear a Part. 

(JTljortts. 

Let noble Masons Healths go round; 
Their Praife in bfty LoodE rdbund. 



(84) 



THE 



Enter'd 'PRENTICES SONG. 



By our late BROTHER 



Mr. Matthew Birkhead, deceas'd. 

To be fung when all grave Business is over, and with 
THE Master's Leave. 



/~y O M E let us prepare. 
We Brothers that are 
Aflembled on merry Occafion; 

Let's drink, laugh, and fing; 

Our Wine has a Spring: 
Here's a Health to an Accepted Mason. 

II. 

The World is in pain 

Our Secrets to gain. 
And ftill let them wonder and gaze on; 

They ne'er can divine 

The Word or the Sign 
Of a Free and an Accepted Mason. 

III. 

'Tis This, and 'tis That, 

They cannot tell What, 
Why fo many Great Men of the Nation 

Should Aprons put on. 

To make themfelvcs one 
With a Free and an Accepted Mason. 



IV. 

Great Kings, Dukes, and Lords, 

Have laid by their Swords, 
Our Myst'ry to put a good Grace on. 

And ne'er been alham'd 

To hear themfelves nam'd 
With a Free and an Accepted Mason.. 

V. 

Anti(juity's Pride 

We have on our fide. 
And it maketh Men juft in their Station : 
' There's nought but what's good 

To be underftood 
By a Free and an Accepted Mason. 

VI. 
' Then join Hand in Hand, 
T'each other firm ftand. 
Let's be merry, and put a bright Face on. 
What Mortal can boaft 
So Noble a Toast, 
As a Free and an Accepted Mason? 

* . .. 



( 85 ) 

One Verfe o{ the Third Part of the Mafter's Song, with 
the Chorus, fet to Mufic, by a Brother. 




^=^ 



^^^^: 



^3i 



-,«- 



t 



HUS mighty Eaftern Kings, and fome of Abram's 

.(2 ,,_ 



-5>- 



3eI 



:E 



i 



j;S= 



-zji- 



|:-6?- 



ig • 



ai — h 



Race, and Monarchs good. Of Egypt, Syria, Greece, and Rome, 



M 



^^^^ m^^^^m 



m 



u 



^- 



*E| 



True Archi tecture under- ftood. 



S^ 



No wonder then if Mafons join To 



-e- 



rg 



i 



o- 



-!©- 



"il? — ^^-^—m 'w~f *"-"i" ^~f ' "fri — V — \ \~ " 


^^ — l—^ — ;^3-:.L^^i^-itt.-^ J- 



fe 



ce-]e-brate thofe Mafon-Kings, With folemn Note and flow ing Wine, Whilfc 



^ 



=F 



i^ii: 



©- 



s 



f-#- 



sgg gl^i^ 



^ 



::£ 



ev'-ry Bro - ther joint - ly ■ fings. 



'§* 



(86) 



C HOR US. 




Who can un — fold the Roy — al Art? or fi- 



-ng Its 



-fi-ff^-rf^ 



££f j^t L t.rf fe 



E^ 



^^ES^SEEJ 



SE 



3i 



Who can un — fold the Roy — al Art? or fi 



-ng Its 



m^m 



i-Si-3^ 



s 



p- 



P3EF 



^It 



-f2- 



:^ 



^ 



N^r=^ 



Se — crets in 



Song? They're fafely kept in Ma — fons 



=P^- 



SES 



Se — crets in 



Song? They're fafely kept in Ma — fons 

. -0- ■^■0- 



S 



^ 

^^^ 



a 



ft 



in 



£^ 



IS. 



Heart, And to the ancient Lodge be — long. 



&l 



S^^Sffi 



1 



E^ 



-S- 



Heart, And to the ancient Lodge be — long. 



.P^ 



if 



i 



ntzzzit 



-^5- 



1 



( 87 ) 

The laft Verfe o{ the Wardens Song, with the Chorus, 
fet to Mufic, by a Brother. 




*^»^f" 



■F0F\- 



S>-^ 



-G 



ROM henceforth e— ver fing The Craftfman and the 



±=±tz± 



-G- 



^^^^EE^ 



^ 



King, With Poe — try and Mufick fweet Refound their Har-mo-ny 



^t^- 



^-1>. 



^-f- 



#- 



^^ 



^£ 



t 



Ie^ 



-^«. 



;^TF= 



1q 



fefe* 



% 



-!©- 



-fa-^^ 



r 



Refound their Har mo~ny com pleat ; And with Ge~o~me— try 



^W=» 



-e-^ 



'Q- 



T 



* 



S 



^ 



w 



-f2- 



:[= 



S 



-h 



— (2-1- ,vv 



/gt 



in skil — ful Hand, Due Homage Pay, 
■^ |g- i \—:r-^-\ — I *■ 



Without De— lay. 



-0- 



-9—f^- 



Little flower. 



Faster. 



^^^ 



-G- 



-^T- 

*? 



-5»-^ 



To Wharton's no— ble Duke our Ma— ftcr Grand : He rules the 



^3P 



f 




Za^^jl 



± 



(88 ) 



-G- 



-G- 



Free born Sons of Art, By Love and Friendfliip, by Love and 



m 



9? 



-&- 



=#=f= 



i 



-G-^ 



Friendfliip, by Love and Friendfhip, Hand and Heart. 



^ 



1 



CHORUS. 



Ms=te=h 



|g=g^ip|i^ 



Who can re — hearfe the Praife, In foft Po e tick Lays, Or 



^^^^e^^^PEi 



^ 



f 



Who can re — hearfe the Praife, In foft Po e tick Lays, Or 



ito 



JSl 



-«- 



±=t 



t 



t^-^E^^ 



itte^ 



— » — j9 =w 



=tE 



>pEi= 



g 



r#: 



fo— lid Profe, of Mafons true, Whofe Art tranfcends the common View ? 



:Uz=± 



^^ 



-Q- 



^--^ 



fo— lid Profe, of Mafons true, Whofe Art tranfcends the common View ? 



I 



— F 






k3=i?i 



(89 ) 



G HOR US. 



t 



I: 



'^ 



9 ^ 



;>—- f-H!^— # 



^liz^pizz^ 



f 



Their Secrets, ne'er to Strangers yet expos'd, Preferv'd fliall 



lEE^Ei 



l^T^ ''b- 



ii; 



t 



m 



Their Se — crets, ne — ver yet expos'd, Preferv'd fliall 



m^=^ 



T 



i 



1^ 



:^i 



-• • 



*: 



-9 •- 



-^-^-^- 



=^=i^ 



f 



^ 



_^_=^^=tz: 



/^ 



be 



Preferv'd fhall be, by Mafons Free, And on — ly 



1^=^^ 



tti 



:^=^ 



t 



gf=5 



t 



be by Mafons Free, 
#r ^f ^r- 



by Mafons Free, 



e 



* 



W- 



» 



fcf 



^=^ 



^fe 



to the ancient Lodge difclos'd; 



Be — caufe they're 



=8= 



i2 



it 



s 

■^ 



and to the ancient Lodge difclos'd; Be— caufe they're kept in 



fes 



(9o) 



* 



m^. 



j^ 



:?=?: 



Pi^ 



-^ F— i^ 



kept in Mafon's Heart, bccaufe they're kept in Mafon's Heart by 



'Ml 



*i^=f 



^=S. 



t 



Ma — fon's Heart, 



becaufe they're kept by 



^^m 



i=£ 



S 



-jf 



J- 



^m 



^ 



9-^—^ 



^ 



Brethren of the Roy-al ART. 



9^ f-^— f: 



-f- 



-^ p-^-f- 



^ 



f ^ 

Brethren of the Roy-al ART. 



P^^ 



t 



The Tune of the Enter'd Prentice's Song, Compos'd 
by its Author, Mr. Birkhead, Deceas'd. 



5: 



9 ^ ^O y 



^ ^ 



? 



fEEE 



Come 


let 


us 


1 


Dre 


:are 


we 


Brothers that are 


met 


to 


gether 


on 


■ y 


ft . 


1^ 






Pa 




K 1 1 






■ p 


ift 


/ 














"1 ,~ 




1 








" 


• 


rn 






r 








~y~ 










1 






-S^ — 






1 


h 1 






1 — : 1 







merry Oc — ca-fion. Let's Drink Laugh and Sing, our Wine has a 



frs 1 ^ 


r-f—9—f—irw-f-\ 

■ 


Ffrf#=^ 


■y ' 




.... " Jl 



Spring, 'tis a Health to an Accepted MASON. 



( 91 ) 



The Mufick of the Fellow-Crafts Song, containing feveral Sheets, being too much to 
be herewith printed, the Lodge, to which the Authors of the Song and Mufick belong, 
will afford it in Manufcript to any other Lodge, when defired. 




London, this 17TH Day of January, i7z|-. 

A T the Quarterly Communication, This Book, which was undertaken at the Com- 
mand of His Grace the Duke of Montagu, our late ©rantt MaskV, 
having been regularly approved in Manufcript by the Grand Lodge, was this Day 
produced here in Print, arid approved by the Society: Wherefore we do hereby 
Order the fame to be Publiflied, and recommend it for the Ufe of the Lodges, 



Philip Duke of Wharton, ^VavUs jHttSter. 



I. T. Desaguliers Deputy (^Xaviif MCLSttV. 



F I N I S . 



Analytical Indexes 



ANDERSON'S CONSTITUTIONS 



PREPARED BY 



' ALBERT G. MACKEY, M. D. 



I. 
INDEX TO THE HISTORICAL PART. 

A. 

PACK 

Abkaham learned Geometry and the kindred Arts in Ur of the Chaldees, and 

transmitted them to his sons, . . . . . .7 

Adam had the principles of G-eometry and the liberal Sciences impressed upon 

liis heart, ........ 1 

" taught his sons Geometry, and its use, . . . . .2 

African nations conjectured to have imitated the Egyptians in Masonry, . 24 

Aholiab with Bezaleel erected the Tabernacle, .... 8 

Anne, Queen of England, encouraged Architecture, . . . .43 

Archimedes, a prodigious Geometrician in Sicily, . . . .24 

Architecture flourished in the reign of William III., . . . .42 

Ark of Noah was fabricated by Geometry and according to the rules of " 
Masonry, ........ 3 

Arms of Freemasonry in the reign of Henry V., . . . .82 

Athelstane, King of England, encouraged Masons from France, . . 32 

" improved the Constitutions of the English Lodges, . . 32 

" increased the "Wages of the working Masons, . . .32 

" granted a free Charter, for the assembling of the Masons, to his son. 

Prince Edwin, about A.D. 930. . . . . .32 

Augustan style of Architecture defined, . . . . .25 

Augustus, Emperor of Rome, encouraged Masonry and the Masons, and parti- 
cularly Vitruvius, . . . . . . .25 

" became the Grand Master of Masons at Rome, . . .25 



(94) 



B. 

PACK 

Baal, or Bel, was one name by which Nimrod was worshipped, . Note, 4 

Babylon, city of, described, ..... Note, 16 

Bonai, or builders, at the Temple, defined, . . . . .10 

Britons, the ancient, had a few remains of good Masonry before the Roman 

conquest, . ... . . . . .27 

Buildings, list of those erected in England since the revival of Masonry, Note, 46 

C. 

Cain built a city, and called it consecrated or dedicated, a,iteri\ie name of Enoch, 

his son, . . . . . . . . .2 

" posterity of, imitated his example in the improvement of Geometry and 
Masonry, ........ 2 

" erected many curious works, . . . . . .3 

Canaan, sons of, erected many beautiful temples and mansions, . .6 

Candidates, by Prince Edwin's constitutions, were to be examined before they 

were admitted as Master Masons, . . . . .33 

Captives at Babylon retained their skill in Masonry, by building the works of 

Nebuchadnezzar, ....... 18 

" rebuilt the Temple of Jerusalem, A.M. 3468, . . .18 

Celtic edifices were erected by the ancient Gauls and Britons before the 

Roman conquest, ....... 27 

Chaldees and Magi preserved Geometry on the Tigris and Euphrates, . 5 

Charles I. was an accepted Freemason, . . . . .40 

" founded St. Paul's in 1666, . . . . 40 

" founded other edifices, ...... 40 

Charles Martel, King of France, sent expert Craftsmen and learned Architects 

to England, A.D. 741, . . . . . . .3] 

Civil Wars, Masonry languished during the, . . . .40 

Colossus of Rhodes described, ....,, Note 26 

Confusion of languages helped to give rise to the Masonic modes of recognition, 5 
Constitution and Charges of an English Lodge were framed by the Assembly 
at York, from all the writings and records in Greek, Latin, French, 
and other languages then extant, . . . . .33 

" and Charges ordered to be read by the Master and Warden, on 

the admission of a new Brother, . . . . 33 

Cyrus vvas Grand Master, A.M. 3468, and ordered the rebuilding of the Temple 

at Jerusalem, ••..... 18 



(95) 



D. 

FAG£ 

Dagon, Temple of, described, . . . . . . .9 

Danes, the invasion of, occasioned the loss of many Masonic records, in Eng- 
land, A.D. 832, ....... 30 

E. 

Edwin, Prince, summoned a General Assembly of the Masons at York, about 

930, . . . . . . . . .32 

" obtained a free Charter for them from his father. King Athelstane, 32 
Elizabeth, Queen, discouraged Masonry, because, being a woman, she could 

not be made a Mason, . . . . . . ,38 

" anecdote of her, ... . . . Note, 38 

England received Masonry from France in the reign of King Charles Mar- 

tel, A.D. 741, . . . . . . . .30 

Enoch erected two pillars, which by some, however, have been attributed to 

Seth, ....... Note, 3 

Entered Apprentices, directions to, in an old MS., . . . Note, 34 

Euclid gathered up the scattered elements of Geometry, and digested these 

into a method, at Alexandria, A.M. 3700, . . . .22 

Europe, northern, there are few remains of good Masonry there before the 

Roman conquest, . . . . . . .27 

Expelled Masons, an old regulation concerning, . . . Note, 34 

F. 

Forty-seventh Proposition of Euclid's 1st book is the foundation of all 

Masonry, . . . . • . . .21 

Freemasons' Arms, in the reign of Henry V., were the same as those of the 

Working Masons, . . . . . . ' . 82 

G. 

General Assembly held at York, and framed the Constitution and Charges of 

the English Lodges, . . . . . . .33 

Geometry was written on the heart of Adam, .... 1 

" is the foundation of all the mechanical Arts, and particularly of 
Masonry and Architecture, . . . . . .2 

" was taught by Adam to his sons, .... 2 

" and Masonry practised by Cain and Seth, . . . .2 



(96) 



PAGE 



Geometry, brought by Noah and his sons from the Old World to the New, 3 
and Masonry practised in the Vale of Shinar, . . .3 

" carried by the workmen thence after their dispersion 
into distant parts, ....... 4 

and Masonry lost in most parts of the earth, . . .4 

" preserved by Nimrod in Shinar and Assyria, . 4 

afterwards preserved on the Tigris and Euphrates by the Chaldees 
and Magi, . . . . . . . .5 

and Masonry were thence transmitted to later ages, . . 5 

" were much improved in Egypt, from the overflowings 
of the Nile, . . . . . . . .5 

was cultivated in Greece after the time of Pythagoras, . . 22 

was digested into a method by Euclid at Alexandria, A.M. 3700, . 22 

George I. encouraged the revival of the ancient style, . . .44 

" laid the foundation-stone of the chapel of St. Martin in campis, . 44 

G hiblim, the Stonecutters at the Temple, .... Note, 10 

Gothic style was encouraged in England during the Heptarchy, . . 30 

Goths and Vandals were enemies of Masonry, . . . .25 

Grand Master was always nobly born in Scotland, . . . .37 

Greece, Masonry carried into, after the Temple, . . . .20 

" not distinguished for knowledge of Geometry until the time of Thales, 
A.M. 3457, . . . . . . . .20 

" knowledge of Geometry and Masonry in, was revived by its corre- 
spondence with the Asiatics and Egyptians, - . . Note, 20 



H. 

Harodim, the Eulers or Provosts at the Temple, . . . . lo 

Henry V., condition of Masonry in the reign of, . . . 82 

Henry VI. approved the Constitutions of Prince Edwin, . . .33 

" act passed in the reign of, was made for the Working Masons, 35 

" act of, was never enforced against the Freemasons, . . 36 

Hiram Abif, meaning of his name, ..... Note, 11 

" " his character, . . . . . . " 12 

" " called Master of the Work, ..... 14 

Hiram, King of Tyre, . . . . . . . . lo 

" " " was Grand Master of the Lodge at Tyre, . . 14 



(97) 



I. 

PAGE 

Ish Chotzeb, the Hewers at the Temple, .... Note, 10 

Ish Sabbal, the Laborers at the Temple, .... "10 

Israelites, forced by the kings of Egypt to learn Masonry, . . .8 

" were a whole kingdom of Masons when they left Egypt, . 8 

" improved Masonry after they possessed Canaan, by special direction 

of Heaven, . . . . . . . .9 

" none of the neighboring nations could equal them in Masonry, . 15 

J. 

James I. revived the English Lodges, . . . . . .38 

" revived the Augustan style in England-, . . . .39 

James II., Lodges dwindled in the reign of, . . . . .40 

Japhet, posterity of, were skilled in Geometry and Masonry, . . 6 

Jones, Inigo, was a successful imitator of Palladio, . . . .39 

" " his genius and works, .... Note, 40 

Jupiter Olympus, statue of, described, . . . . " 28 

K. 

King's Freemason or General Surveyor was the name of an officer in the reign 

of Edward III., ....... 31 

Knighthood, military orders of, borrowed many of their usages from Masonry, 46 

L. 

Lodge of Masons in every Roman garrison, . . . .27 

Lodges, their revival in London, . . • • . '4:7 

" list of, in London in 1723, ■ . . . • .74- 

M. 

Mahometans were enemies of Masonry, . . . • .28 

Masonry, the Old World was not ignorant of it, . . . . 3 

" was communicated to the New World by Noah and his sons, . 3 

" was carried, after the dispersion at Babel, into distant parts, . 4 

" was preserved by Nimrod in Shinar and Assyria, . . .4 

" was encouraged by the kings and great men there, . . 6 
" was transmitted thence, with Geometry, to later ages and distant 

climes, ...•••• ^ 



(98) 



Masonry was brought to Egypt by Mitzraim, 160 years after the flood, . 5 
" was improved in all the nations which were adjacent to Judea, after 

the building of the Temple, by the dispersion of the workmen, . 14 
was extended to Greece, ...... 19 

was extended to Lower Asia, . . . . .19 

was cultivated in Greece, . . . . .22 

was cultivated in Sicily, . . . . . .24 

was transmitted from Sicily to Rome, . . . .24 

was extended to Ultima Thule, . . . . .27 

was encouraged by the Saxons and Normans, . • .30 

was encouraged in Scotland, . . . . .37 

was discountenanced by Queen Elizabeth, . . .38 

was encouraged by James I., . . . . .39 

was encouraged by Charles II., . . . . .40 

languished during the Civil Wars, . . . . .40 

recovered at the Restoration, in 1666, . . . .40 

dwindled in the reign of James II., . . . . .41 

had a mighty influence in every age and nation, . . .44 

condition of, in England, in 1723, . . . . .46 

Masons were always the favorites of the eminent, in times of peace and free- 
dom, ........ 25 

Mausoleum, the, described, . . . . . . .21 

Menatzchim, the Overseers at the Temple, . . . Note, 10 

Montagu, Duke of. Grand Master of England, . . . .48 

Monument, the London, described, .... Note, 42 

Moses, the General Master Mason, . . . . . .8 



N. 

Nebuchadnezzar set his heart on Architecture, and became the Grand Master 

Mason, A.M. 3416, ....... 16 

" built Babylon, . . . . . .16 

Nimrpd preserved Masonry in Shinar and Assyria, ... 4 

" built many cities, . . . . . . .4 

Noah and three sons were all true Masons, . . . . 3 ' 

" " " brought with them, over the flood, the traditions and 

arts of the antediluvians, . . . . . .3 

Normans encouraged Masonry, ...... 30 



(99) 



0. 

PAGE 

Overseers at the Temple, ...... Note, 10 

Oxford Theatre described, ...... "43 



Painters always have been reckoned as good Masons, because they perform 

according to Geometry and the rules of building, . . .26 

Palladio revived the Augustan style in Italy, . . . .39 

Pharos, the Tower of, described, ..... Note, 23 

Phidias was one of the ancient Masons, . . . . "26 

Ptolomeus Philadelphus was General Master Mason in Egypt, and erected the 

Tower of Pharos, A.M. 3748, . . . . . .23 

Pyramids are a proof of Masonry in Egypt, .... 5 

Pythagoras was the author of the 47th proposition of Euclid's 1st book, . 20 
" account of, ..... . Note, 21 

E. 

Record, Masonic, in the reign of Edward IV., described, . . .31 

Religious Orders borrowed many of their usages from Masonry, . . 41 

S. 

Sampson never was numbered among Masons, because he revealed his secrets 

to his wife, ....... Note, 9 

Saxons, before their conversion to Christianity, were enemies of Masonry, 29 

" afterwards erected Lodges, and encouraged Masonry, . . .30 

Scotland, Masonry encouraged in, . . . . . .37 

" Gra^d Master and Grand Warden in, had a fixed salary from the 

Crown, . . . . . . • . .37 

" regulations of, . . . . . • .37 

Seth was the prime cultivator of Astronomy, . . . . .2 

" taught Geometry and Masonry to his offspring, ... 2 

" family of, erected many curious works, . . . . .3 

Shem, posterity of, cultivated the Masonic Arts, .... 7 

Sheriff or Mayor ordered by an old MS. to be made fellow and Sociate to the 

Master of a Lodge, in help of him against rebels, . . Note, 34 

Shinar, a vast number of the race of Noah employed in building a city and 

tower in the vale of, ...... 4 



( loo) 



FACE 



Shinar , workmen at, celebrated for their skill in Masonry, . . .4 

" " carried their skill into distant parts, . . 4 

Sicily taught G-eometry and Masonry to Rome, . . . .24 

Solomon built the Temple at Jerusalem, ..... 9 

" dedicated or consecrated the Temple, A.M. 3000, . . .13 

" was G-rand Master of the Lodge at Jerusalem, '. . .14 

Statuaries have always been reckoned good Masons, because they perform 

according to G-eometry and the rules of building, . . .26 

Stone, Nicholas, was Master Mason under Inigo Jones, . . . 39 

T. 
Tabernacle was erected by Aholiab and Bezaleel under Moses, and framed by 

Geometry, . . . . . • • -8 

Temple of Solomon described, ...... 9 

Temple, the Second, foundations of, laid by order of Cyrus, A.M. 3468, . 18 

" « dedicated by Zerubbabel, A.M. 3489, . . 19 

" " described, . . . . . .19 

" of Ephesus described, ..... NoU, 15 

V. 

Vandals were enemies of Masonry, . . . • • .28 

Vitruvius was the father of all true Architects, . . . .25 

W. 

William the Conqueror built the Tower of London, • . . Note, 31 

William II. encouraged Masonry, and built Westminster Hall, . . 31 

William III. is reckoned a Freemason, . . . . .43 

" encouraged Masonry, ...... 43 

" in the reign of, the Augustan style was much affected, . . 43 

Workmen at the Temple described, . . . . .10 

Wren, Sir Christopher, was the King's Architect, . . . .43 

Y. 

Yevelb, Henry, was the King's Freemason, or G-eneral Surveyor, in the reign 

of Edward IIL, . . . . . . .31 

York, General Assembly at, about A.D. 930, . . . . .32 

Z. 

Zerubbabel, as General Master Mason of the Jews, dedicated the Second 

Temple with joy, A.M. 3489, ..... 19 



(lOl) 



II. 

INDEX TO THE CONSTITUTIONAL PART, 



Age of a candidate to be not less than 25, except by dispensation (4 Regula- 
tion), . . . . , . . . .59 

Annual Communication of all the city Lodges to be holden on St. John the 

Baptist's or St. John the Evangelist's day (22 Reg.), 65 
" " new Grand Master, Deputy, and Wardens, to be 

cbosen at the (22 Reg.), . . . . . .65 

Appeals may be carried to the Grand Lodge, . . . .54 

" to the Annual, from the Quarterly Communication of the Grand 
Lodge, . . . . . . . . .56 

Atheist, no Mason can be one, ...... 50 

B. 

Behaviour in a Lodge, . . . . , . .53 

" after Lodge, before leaving, . . . . .54 

" without strangers, but out of Lodge, . . . .54 

" in presence of strangers not Masons, . . . .55 

" at home, . . . . . . . .55 

" to a strange Brother, ...... 55 

Bondmen cannot be admitted as Masons, . . . . .51 

Brother, Masons to salute each other by the title of, . . . 52, 54 

Brotherly love is to be cultivated as a foundation and cape-stone, . . 56 

C. 

Candidates, not more than iive to be made at one time (4 Reg.), . . 59 

Candidate, age of, not to be less than 25 years (4 Reg.), . . .59 

" to be unanimously elected (6 Reg.), . . . .59 

" to clothe the Lodge, and to deposit something for charity (7 Reg.), 60 
" shall promise to submit to the constitutions, charges, and regula- 
tions (7 Reg.), ....... 60 

Cashier may be appointed by a Lodge to take charge of the charity fund 

(7 Reg.), . . • • • • • .60 

Caution before strangers inculcated, . . . . ' . 55 

« " one's family, friends, and neighbours, . . . .65 



(I02) 



Charity Fund to be lodged with the Master, or Wardens, or Cashier, if there 

be one (7 Reg.), ....... 60 

" to be deposited by every new Brother at his making (7 Reg.), . 60 

" regulation for, in the, Grand Lodge (13 Reg.), . . .62 

Clandestine Lodge, how to be treated (8 Reg.), . . . .60 

Committee to be appointed to examine all Brethren coming to the annual 

feast (25 Reg.), ..... .66 

Committees, private, forbidden to be holden in a Lodge, . . .53 

Complaints (or charges), how to be conducted, . . . .54 

Constituting a new Lodge, manner of, . . . . .71 

D. 

Defect, physical, a disqualification for Apprentices, . . .51 

Deputy Grand Master to be chosen by the Grand Master, . . .52 

" " " to be appointed by the Grand Master at the Grand 

Feast (35 Reg.), ..... 69 

" " " must have been the Master of a Lodge, . . 52 

" " " may perform the duties of Grand Master, in his absence, 52 

" " " being sick, the Grand Master may appoint a Deputy 

]jro tempore (18 Reg.), . . . . .64 

" " " cannot act as Master or Warden of a Lodge, while in 

office (17 Reg.), ..... 64 

" " " cannot be discharged without the consent of the Grand 

Lodge (18 Reg.), . . . . .64 

Disorderly Brother, how to be dealt with (9 Reg.), . . .60 

Dispensations, cases in which they may be granted (5, 8, 12, 13 Reg.), 59, 60, 61 

E. 

Envy forbidden, ........ 53 

Excesses forbidden, . . . . . . . .54 

Entered Apprentices allowed to speak at the Annual Communication (37 

Reg.),. ...... 70 

" " allowed to vote in making new regulations (39 Reg.), 70 



Feast to be held on St. John the Baptist's or St. John the Evangelist's day 

(22 Reg.), ........ 65 

" must be agreed upon three months before (22 Reg.), . . .65 



(103) 



Feast, if objected to by the Grand Master, or a majority of the Masters, it 

must be dropped (22 Reg.), ..... 65 

" how to be managed (23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 30 Reg.), . . 66, 68 

Fellow, a name by which Masons may call each other, . . .52. 

Fellow Crafts and Master Masons only, to be made only in Grand Lodge 

(13 Reg.), . . . . . . . 61 

" " permitted to speak at the Annual Communication (37 Reg.), 70 

Fidelity to the Lord («. e., employer) inculcated, . . . .62 

Free-born, Masons must be, ...... 51 

G. 

Grand Lodge to consist of the Master and Wardens of all the Lodges, with 

the Grand Master, Deputy, and Grand Wardens (12 Reg.), . 61 

" " to hold Quarterly Communications and an annual one (12 Reg.), 61 

" " duties and functions of (13 Reg.), . . . .61 

" " allmatters in, to be determined by a majority of votes (12 Reg.), 61 

" " none but members to be present (12 Reg.), . . .61 

Grand Master must have been a Fellow Craft, . . . .52 

" " other qualifications of, . . . . • .52 

" " authority and powers of, . . . . .56 

" " has two votes (12 Reg.), . . . . .61 

" " not to be applied to on business without the knowledge of his 

Deputy (16 Reg.), ...... 64 

" " has a right to preside in any Lodge (1 Reg.), . . .58 

" » cannot be the Master or Warden of a Lodge during the time of 

office (17 Reg.), ...... 64 

" " abusing his power, to be treated by a new regulation (19 Reg.), 64 

«' " dying, or being otherwise rendered incapable of discharging his 

office, how his place is to be supplied (21 Reg.), • • 65 

" '< to be elected only by the Master and Wardens of the Lodges 

(29 Reg.), . ... . . • • -68 

«' " how to be proclaimed (32 Reg.), . • . .68 

" " if not elected at the Annual Communication, or refuses to serve, 

then the present Grand Master shall appoint his successor, to be 

unanimously approved by the Grand Lodge (33 Reg.), . . 69 

« " to act as proxy for the Grand Master elect, if he be absent at 

the time of his election, and to receive homage for him (36 Reg.), 70 
<( '< must harangue the Brethren and give them good advice at the 

Annual Communication (38 Reg.), . . . .70 



(104) 



H. 

PAGE 

Health must be consulted, by not continuing together too late, or too long 

from home after lodge hours are past, . . . .55 

Henry V., opinion concerning the act passed in the reign of, . . . 57 

Honour of the Ancient Brotherhood to be consulted, . . .55 



111 language to be avoided by the Craftsmen, . . . . .52 

Instructing the Master and Wardens, right of secured to the Lodge, . 61 

Instruction to be given to the younger Brethren, . . . .55 



Journey-work not to be put to task, . . . . .53 



Laborers not to be employed in the proper work of Masonry, . . 53 

Language, unbecoming, not to be used in the Lodge, . . .53 

Law, not to be resorted to, about what concerns Masonry, without an absolute 

necessity, apparent to the Lodge, . . . . .54 

Law suits between Masons to be conducted without wrath and rancour, . 56 
Legal course, never to be taken, unless the case cannot be otherwise decided, 00 
Libertine, irreligious, (i. e., a freethinker,) a Mason cannot be one, . 50 

Lodge, definition of, . . . . . . . .51 

" every Brother to belong to one, . . . . .51 

" anciently, no Mason could be absent from it, except from necessity, 

without severe consure, . . . . . .51 

" qualifications for admission to (2 Keg.), . . . .57 

" Rulers and Governors of, to be obeyed in their respective stations, 

with humility, reverence, love, and alacrity, . . .52 

" is either particular or general, . . . . .51 

" by-laws, roll, and minutes of, to be kept by the Master, Wardens, or 

some Brother appointed by the Master (3 Reg.), . . .59 

" members of, are the best judges of whom they shall admit (6 Reg.), 50 
" Grrand. See Grand Lodge. 

M. 

Majority of votes to decide in the Grand Lodge (12 Reg.), . . .61 

Making of more than five new Brothers at one time forbidden (4 Reg.), . 59 



(io5) 



PAGE 

Mason, the religion of one, , . , . . . .50 

Master of a Lodge, his rights and authority (2 Eeg.), . . .59 

" " must have acted as a Warden, . . . .52 

" " the most expert of the Fellow Crafts to be chosen as the, . 52 

" " who is the oldest Freemason, to preside in the Grand Lodge 

in the absence of higher officers (14 Reg.), , . 61 

" Grand. See Grand Master. 
" Masons and Fellow Crafts to be made only in the Grand Lodge (13 

Reg.), . . . . . . , .61 

Merit, the only ground of preferment among Masons, . . .51' 

Mirth, innocenj:, to be enjoyed after Lodge, . . . . .54 

Moral Law, a Mason obliged by his tenure to obey the, . . .50 

Motions to be received before dinner at the annual feast (28 Reg.), . . 66 

0. 

Obedience to the Rulers of Masonry inculcated, . . . .52 



Past Grand Master, or Past Deputy, takes the place of the Grand Master in 

his absence, and that of the Deputy (14 Reg.), . . .63 

" Master, the last, to preside in the absence of the Master (2 Reg.), . 59 
Petition or notice to be one month previous to admission of a member (5 

Reg.), . . . . . . . . .59 

Politics not to be brought into the Lodge, . . . .54 

Porters to be appointed for the annual feast (26 Reg.), . . .67 

Preferment among Masons grounded on merit, . . . .51 

Proxy, Grand Master may be installed, and make his nominations by (36 

Reg.), . . . . . . . . .70 

Q. 

Qualifications for admission, ...... 51 

" physical, of candidates, . . . . . .51 

Quarrelling and wrangling forbidden, ..... 56 

Quarrels about religion or politics forbidden, . . . . .54 

Quarterly Communications of the Grand Lodge directed to be h olden (12 

Reg.), ...... 61 

" " none but members to be present at them (12 Reg.), 61 

" " Master. Masons and Fellow Crafts to be made only 

t there, except by dispensation (13 Reg.), . 61 



(io6) 



Quarterly Communications, differences that cannot be settled in private or by 

Lodges, are to be decided there (13 Reg.), . 61 

" " appeal from the, to the annual Grand Lodge (13 

Eeg:), ...... 62 

" " Masters and Wardens to make their returns there 

(13 Eeg.), . . . . ,62 

E. 

Rebels to government not to be countenanced, but cannot be expelled, . 50 

Regulations, General, vs^ere compiled by Geo. Payne, . . .58 

" " how to be altered (39 Eeg.), ... 70 

Religion of a Mason, what it ought to be, . . . . .50 

" disputes about, never to be brought into the Lodge, . . 54 

Representatives of a Lodge are the Master and Wardens (10 Eeg.), . . 61 

Eeverence to be paid to the Master, Wardens, and Fellows, . . 54 
Eoll of members to be kept by the Master, Wardens, or some other Brother 

appointed by the Master (3 Eeg.), . . . . .59 

S. 

Salute. Brethren to salute one another in a courteous manner, . . 54 

Secretary, Grand, provision for his appointment (13 Eeg.), . . .62 

" cannot be Master or Warden of a Lodge during his time of 

office (17 Eeg.), ..... 64 

Seniority no ground for preferment in Masonry, . . . .51 

Senior Warden presides in the Master's absence, if no Past Master be present ; 

and if there is, he must congregate the Lodge (2 Reg.), . . 59 

Song, the Master's, . . . . . . . .75 

" " Warden's, ....... 80 

" Fellow Craft's, . . . . . . .83 

" " Entered Apprentice's, ...... 84 

Stewards for the annual feast to be appointed (23 Reg.), . . .66 

Strange Brethren to be cautiously examined, . . . .55 

" " to be respected and relieved, . . . .55 

" " to be employed or recommended, . . .56 

Subjection to the civil powers inculcated, . . . . .50 

T. 

Task work not to be put to journey, . . . . .63 

Tyler, Grand, directed to be appointed (13 Reg.), . . . .63 



(loy) 



Tyler, Grand, must be a Fellow Craft (13 Reg.), . . . .63 

" " shall not be a member of the Grand Lodge (13 Keg.), . . 63 

Tools to be approved by the Grand Lodge, . . . .53 

Treasurer, Grand, his appointments and powers (13 Reg.), . . .62 

" " cannot be Master or Warden of a Lodge during the time of 

his office (17 Reg.), . . . . .64 

U. 

Unanimity in balloting for candidates required (6 Reg.), . . .59 

" " canaot be dispensed with (6 Reg.), . . 69 

Uniformity in work to be observed (11 Reg.), . . . .61 

V. 

Visitation of the city Lodges by the Grand Master directed, (12 Reg.) . 61 

Votes, a majority of, to decide all questions in the Grand Lodge, (12 Reg.) . 61 

" the Grand Master has two, (12 Reg.) . . . .61 

W. 

Wages, no more to be given than deserved, . . . . .52 

" to be received without murmuring, . . . .63 

Warden must be a Fellow Craft, . . . . • . .52 

" to oversee the work in the Master's absence,. . . .53 

Wardens, to be elected by the Lodge, if it does not approve of the Master's 

nomination (35 Reg.), . . . . . . .69 

Warden, Grand, must have been the Master of a Lodge, . . .52 

" " cannot be a Master or Warden of a Lodge during his time of 

office (17 Reg.), . . . . . .64 

Wardens, Grand, who are to act as such in the Grand Lodge (15 Reg.), . 63 
" " cannot be discharged by the Grand Master without the con- 

sent of the majority of the Grand Lodge (18 Reg.), . 64 

« " are to prepare tickets for the feast (23 Reg.), . . 66 

" " ,to be nominated by the Grand Master (35 Reg.), . . 69 

" " to be elected by the Grand Lodge, if the Grand Master's 

nomination is not approved (35 Reg.), 
Warrant to form a new Lodge must be obtained from the. Grand Master (8 

Reg.) .60 



(io8) 



Withdrawal of a number of Brethren from a Lodge, when only to he permit- 

ted (8 Keg.) JJ 

Women not to be admitted members of a Lodge, . • • • 

Work on working days inculcated, 

" to be' done reasonably, ...••• ^'^ 

" to be honestly finished, . . . • • • • ^" 

Worth and merit the only grounds of preferment among Masons,. . • 52