L 


THE 


§tatute£  at  £ar&e; 

BEina 

A  COLLECT!^ 


OF    .U 


LAWS  OF  VRGIIVTA 


FROM    THE 


FIRST  SESSION  OF  TH£  LEGISLATURE, 

IN  THE  YEAR  !ol9 


PUBLISHED  PURSUANT  TO  AN  ACT  OF  THE  GENERAL  ASSEMBLY  OF  VIRGINIA, 
PASSED  ON  THK  FIFTH  DAY  OF    FEBRUARY    ONE    THOU- 
SAND EIGHT  HUNDRED  AND  EIGHT. 


VOLUME  I. 


By  WILLIAM  WALLER  HENING. 


■The  Laws  of  a  country  ire  nrrp^nrily  connected  with  every  thing  belonging  to  the  people  of  it, 
jo  that  a  thorough  knowledge  of  Mem,  and  of  their  progress,  would  inform  us  of  everything  that 
Was  most  useful  t<>  lie  known  about  thorn  ;  and  one  of  the  greatest  imperfections  of  historians  in 
"eneral,  w  owing  to  their  ignorance  of  law."  Pritstle^s  Ltd.  on  Hist.  Vol.  I.  pa.  149. 


NEW-YORK: 

PRINTED  FOR  THE  EDITOR,  BY  R.  fc  W.  fc  O.  BARTOW. 

i  — 

1823. 


WE,  P.  V.  Daniel,  William  F.  Pendleton,  William  Robertson,  and  Wit- 
Ham  Selden,  members  of  the  executive  council  of  Virginia,  do  hereby  certi- 
fy that  the  tow  contained  in  the  first  volume  of  Making's  Statutes  at  Large 
have  been,  by  us,  examined  and  compared  with  a  copy  as  corrected  by  the 
certificate  of  the  examiners  heretofore  appointed,  from  which  they  were  ta- 
ken, by  William  F.  Pendleton  and  William  Selden,  from  page  1,  to  page  368 
inclusive,  by  William  V.  Pendleton  and  William  Robertson,  from  page 
369  to  page  428,  inclusive,  and  by  William  F.  Pendleton  and  Peter  V.  Dan- 
iel, from  page  429,  inclusive  to  the  end,  except  from  page  465  to  page  472,  in- 
clusive, which  were  examined  by  Peter  V.  Daniel  and  William  Selden,  and 
we  have  found  the  pages  respectively  examined  by  us,  truly  and  accurately 
printed  except  as  to  the  following  list  of  errata,  to  the  number  of  twelve. 

Given  under  our  hands,  this  14th  day  of  July,  1823. 

P.  V.  DANIEL. 
W.  F.  PENDLETON. 
W.  ROBERTSON. 
W.  SKLDEN. 


ERRATA. 


17,  line  11  from  top,  strike  out  "L"  after  "3" 
218,  line  4  from  bottom,  insert  "out"after  "parts" 
2jS,  line  12  from  bottom,  insert  "be"  after  "to" 
259,  line  10  from  bottom,  strike  out  "continue" 
278,  line  2  from  bottom,  for  "ordered"  read  "enacted" 
292,  line  2  from  top,  strike  out  "three"  after  "the" 
304,  line  14  from  top,  insert  "as"  after  "binding" 
342,  line  10  from  top,  for  "on"  read  "no" 
360,  line  16  from  top,  for  "but"  read  "by" 
518,  line  17  from  bottom,  for  •'though"  read  "throv; 
539,  line  9  from  bottom    insert  "in    before  tobacco" 
line  18  from  top,  for  "so"  read  "to" 


SANTA  CAS 


PBEFACE 

TO  THE  FIRST  EDITION. 


WHETHER  1  shall  render  an  acceptable  service  to  my  native1 
state  in  furnishing  the  only  authentic  materials  for  its  early  history. 

i which  have  hitherto  been  published,  and  which  display  alike  the 
virtue  and  vices,  the  wisdom  and  folly  of  our  ancestors,  I  am  at  a 
loss  to  conjecture.  Nations  as  well  as  individuals  have  their  pride 
of  ancestry;  and  poets  and  historians  in  all  ages  have  delighted  to 
gratify  that  harmless  propensity.  Homer  has  interwoven  a  few  his- 
torical facts,  with  a  strange  mixture  of  Grecian  mythology.  His 
heroes  were  all  allied  to  the  Gods,  and  the  celestial  beings,  in  evei-' 
conflict,  had  their  feelings  enlisted  on  the  side  of  their  respective 
descendants.  He  is  the  only  historian  of  the  Trojan  war;  and 
amidst  the  innumerable  beauties  of  this  immortal  bard,  we  almost 
lose  sight  of  the  fictions  with  which  his  poem  abounds.  Virgil,  in 
imitation  of  his  great  prototype,  equally  administered  to  the  vanity 
of  the  Romans.  It  was  not  enough  that  they  were  the  successors 
of  Janus,  of  Saturn,  of  Jupiter,  and  a  whole  race  of  Latin  kings, 
who  were  afterwards  deified,  and  that  their  city  was  founded  by 
Romulus,  the  son  of  the  God  Mars,  but  their  passion  for  illustrious 
ancestors  gave  a  ready  admission  to  JEneas  the  Trojan,  son  of  An- 
chises  by  the  Goddess  Venus,  and  ranked  him  as  the  sixth  king  of 
the  Latins.  Livy,  one  of  the  best  of  the  Roman  historians,  intro- 
duces his  work  with  those  fabulous  accounts,  which  the  prejudices  of 
education  had  induced  the  best  informed  of  his  countrymen  to 
adopt. 

Modern  English  historians  have,  with  propriety^  rejected  the 
legendary  tales  with  which  the  writings  of  their  predecessors  are 
filled ;  but  the  early  histories  of  all  the  kingdoms  of  Europe,  es- 
tablished after  the  dark  ages,  which  succeeded  the  decline  and  fall 
of  the  Roman  empire,  contain  little  more  than  the  traditions  of  their 
bards.  Indeed,  until  we  come  to  the  laws  of  a  nation,  it  is  impos- 
sible to  form  a  correct  idea  of  its  civil  polity,  or  of  the  state  of  so- 
ciety : 

"As  every  new  law,''  says  a  celebrated  writer,  "is  made  to  re- 
move some  inconvenience  the  state  was  subject  to  before  the  mak- 


iv  PREFACE. 

ing  of  it,  and  for  which  no  other  method  of  redress  was  effectual; 
the  law  itself  is  a  standing,  and  the  most  authentic  evidence  we  can 
require  of  the  state  of  things  previous  to  it.''« 

The  colony  of  Virginia  having  been  planted  long  after  the  revi- 
val of  letters  in  Europe, 6  as  well  as  the  general  introduction  of  the 
use  of  the  press,  it  might  have  been  expected  that  every  thing  re- 
lating to  our  early  history  would  have  been  carefully  preserved. 
But  it  is  a  melancholy  truth,  that  though  we  have  existed  as  a  na- 
tion but  little  more  than  two  hundred  years,  our  public  offices  arc 
destitute  of  official  documents.  It  is  to  the  pious  care  of  individu- 
als c  only,  that  posterity  will  be  indebted  for  those  lasting  monu- 
ments which  perpetuate  the  oppressions  of  the  kings  of  England, 
and  the  patient  sufferings  of  the  colonists.  When  we  compare  the 
extensive  grant  of  territory  contained  in  (he  charters  ol  King  James 
I.  to  the  Lnndon  Company,  d  with  the  narrow  limits  to  which  the 
colony  of  Virginia  was  afterwards  reduced;  when  we  review  the 
arbitrary  conduc  of  that  monarch  in  suspending  the  powers  of  the 
company,  by  proclamation,  and  the  equally  unjust  proceedings  of 
his  son,  Charles  I.  in  taking  the  government  into  his  own  hands  ;e 
and  when  we  contemplate  the  gradual  but  progressive  encroach- 
ments of  his  successors,  on  the  rights  of  the  people,  till  resistance 
became  indispensable,  we  shall  cease  to  wonder  that  so  (ew  evi- 
dences of  their  turpitude  hive  been  suffered  to  remain.  What  was 
left  undone  by  the  predecessors  of  George  III,  was  consummated 
during  his  reign.  All  the  papers,  except  a  few  fragments  deposited 
in  the  archives  of  the  Council  of  State,  and  other  public  offices, 
within  the  reach  of  his  myrmidons,  were,  with  more  than  the  savage 
barbariiy  of  the  Goths  and  Vandals,  committed  to  the  flames. 

In  the  infancy  of  our  legislation,  the  laws  were  few  and  simple. 
They  related  chiefly  to  the  church  government ;  to  the  culture  of 
tobacco  and  other  staple  commodities;  to  defensive  operations 
against  the  Indians,  and  such  other  subjects  as  would  naturally  en- 

a  Priestley's  lectures  on  history,  vol.  1,  pa.  149. 

b  The  first  charter  of  king;  James  I.  lor  two  several  colonies  and  plantations  in  Vir- 
ginia bears  date  the  10th  of  April,  1606  (see  pa.  57  ;)  and  the  first  permanent  settle- 
ment was  made  on  the  26th  of  \pril,  1607,  (see  pa.  132  )  All  the  public  papers,  in  the 
early  periods  of  the  colony,  are  dated  in  such  a  "  year  of  the  plantation,"  answering 
to  the  above  date  for  its  foundation. 

rTliomas  Jefferson, late  President  of  the  United  States,  has  contributed  more  than 
any  other  individual  to  the  preset  \  ation  of  our  ancient  laws.  He  very  early  employed 
himself  in  collecting  them  for  the  public  use ;  and  to  bis  assistance  the  editor  is  chiefly 
in-.,  bted  for  tin-  materials  which  compo*ethe  present  work  — Several  other  gentlemen 
have  very  obligingly  aided  the  exertions  of  the  editor;  an  acknou  ledgment  of  which 
is  made  at  the  commencement  of  the  acts  of  each  session. 

d  Four  hundred  miles  on  the  sea  coast,  and  all  that  space  westwardly  to  the  Pacific 
orean  (see  pa.  88  ;)  and  all  the  islands  lying  within  three  hundred  leagues  of  the  coast 
of  Virginia  (>• 
noeus  Boiling,  Esq.  and  the  latter  of  William  Wirt,  Esq. 

'  This  is  a  mistake.     Sec  preface  to  2d  Vol. 

i  See  Vol.  2,  act  142  of  March,  1661-2 


vi  PREFACE. 

al  practice  whenever  a  law  required  amendment,  to  re-enact  it, 
with  the  amendments  introduced  into  the  body  of  it.  It  was  cus- 
tomary too,  at  each  session,  to  repeal  all  former  laws,&  and  either 
re-enact  them  in  the  very  same  words  of  the  act  repealed,  or  with 
such  amendments  as  experience  might  suggest.  While  they  exist- 
ed only  in  manuscript,  and  were  promulgated  by  being  publickly 
read,  this  mode  was  attended  with  peculiar  advantages  :  for  the 
people,  at  once,  heard  the  ivhole  law  on  a  subject,  without  being 
compelled  to  ask  the  advice  of  counsel,  or  to  resort  to  the  clerk's 
office  for  a  reference  to  the  only  copy  extant  in  their  county. 

The  first  revisal  of  our  laws  was  in  September,  1632,  though 
none  was  expressly  so  called,  until  March,  1642-3.  In  March, 
1657-8,  during  the  existence  of  the  commonwealth  of  England,  an- 
other revisal  was  made,  adapting  the  laws  of  the  colony  to  the  state 
of  the  church,  and  the  republican  institutions  of  that  period.?  In 
March,  1661-2,  after  the  restoration,  the  laws  were  again  revised. 
One  of  the  avowed  objects  of  this  revisal,  as  expressed  in  the  pre- 
amble to  the  acts,  was  to  repeal  and  expunge  all  laws  "  which  might 
"  keep  in  memory  their  forced  deviation  from  his  majesties  obedi- 
"  ence."  The  next  revisal  was  in  1705.  All  the  foregoing,  ex- 
cept Purvises  collection,  exist  to  this  da}'  in  manuscript.  The 
printed  revisals  since  that  of  Purvis,  are  the  editions  of  1733, 
1752,  1769,  1785,  1794,  1803  and  1808.  Beverley's  and  Mercer's 
abridgments  cannot  properly  be  deemed  revisals. 

In  the  mode  adopted  for  the  revision  of  the  laws,  their  history 
and  progress  have  been  completely  lost.  When  various  and  prior 
acts  on  the  same  subject,  have  been  consolidated  into  single  bills, 
they  were  enacted  into  laws,  as  of  the  date  when  the  legislature 
last  acted  upon  them.  The  sessions  acts,  from  which  they  were 
taken,  were  thrown  aside  as  waste  paper,  and  in  the  course  of  a 
few  years,  the  original  law  was  wholly  forgotten.  A  remarkable 
instance  of  this  occurred  in  the  act "  For  a  free  trade  with  Indians.'' 
It  originally  passed  in  1691  ;  but  was  incorporated  in  the  manu- 
script revisal  of  1705,  without  an}7  notice  of  the  act  from  which  it 
had  been  taken.  In  1733  it  was  printed  from  the  act  of  1705,  and 
as  of  that  date.  This  being  the  first  appearance  of  the  law  in  print. 
our  supreme  court  decided,  that   that  act,  as  passed  in  1705,  was 


k  See  act  LXVI.  of  February,  1631-2  (pa.  177)  and  act  I.  of  Sept.  1632  (pa.  179- 
fc't)  by  which  all  former  laws  are  repealed  ;  and  many  of  the  acts  of  these  seilions 
will  be  found  to  be  mere  repetitions  of  former  ones. 

/  Compare  act  I.  of  March,  1657-8  (pa.  433)  with  act  t.  of  March,  1642-3  (pa.  240) 
and  it  v.  HI  a'  once  be  discovered  thai  the  laws  for  settling  the  church  government,  dur- 
ing the  commonwealth,  instead  of  enjoining  obedience  to  the  doctrines  and  disci- 
plined the  Church  of  England,  left  the  people  to  the  exercise  of  their  own  judg- 
ment- 


PREFACE.  vii 

iiie  first  law  which  restricted  the  right  of  making  slaves  of  Indians.//.-. 
The  act  of  1691,  having  been  afterwards  discovered  in  an  edition 
of  Purvis,n  into  which  it  had  been  transcribed,  the  district  court 
of  Accomack  held  that  it  was  the  law  of  the  land,  and  equally  re- 
stricted the  right  of  making  slaves  of  Indians,  with  the  act  of  1705. o 
Since  then  two  other  manuscripts,  containing  the  same  law,  as  pass- 
ed in  1691,  have  been  discovered  ;p  and  the  supreme  court  of  ap- 
peals have  unanimously  established  their  authority  and  decided  that 
u  No  native  American  Indian,  brought  into  Virginia  since  the  year 
1691,  could,  under  any  circumstances,  lawfully  be  made  a  slave. "^ 
Thus  it  has  happened,  that  under  the  influence  of  theirs?  opinion 
of  our  supreme  courts,  arising  from  the  want  of  access  to  the  laws, 
thousands  of  the  descendants  of  Indians  have  been  unjustly  depriv- 
ed of  their  liberty. 

With  men  of  liberal  and  enlarged  minds,  it  had  long  been  a  sub- 
ject of  serious  regret  that  no  legislative  means  were  adopted  for 
the  preservation  of  our  ancient  laws,  so  very  essential  to  a  correct 
view  of  our  history,  and  on  which  so  much  property  depended. 
The  evil  began  to  be  so  sensibly  felt,  as  it  respected  questions  of 
property,  that  the  legislature,  at  the  session  of  1795,  passed  an  act 
directing  that  all  the  laws  and  clauses  of  laws,  whether  public  or 
private,  relating  to  lands,  tenements,  or  hereditaments,  within  this 
commonwealth,  at  any  time  passed  since  the  first  settlement  of  Vir- 
ginia, should  be  collected,  and  an  edition  of  one  thousand  copies 
published.  A  committee,  consisting  of  Geokge  Wythe,  John 
Brown,  John  Marshall,  Bushrod  Washington  and  John 
Wickham,  was  appointed,  who,  or  any  three  of  whom,  were  re- 
quested to  carry  the  intention  of  the  legislature  into  effect.r  In 
pursuance  of  this  act,  the  chairman  of  the  committee  (Judge  Wythe) 
addressed  a  letter  to  Mr.  Jefferson,  requesting  the  use  of  his  col- 
lection of  laws,  which  was  known  to  be  more  complete  than  any 
other  extant.  Mr.  Jefferson  sent  his  collection  of  the  printed  acts, 
but  immediately  afterwards,  in  a  letter  to  Mr.  Wythe,  gave  such 
cogent  reasons  for  extending  the  publication  so  as  to  embrace  all 


r/i  See  the  rase  of  Hannah  &:  others  vs.  Davis,  in  the  general  court,  mentioned  in 
a  note  to  Tucker's  Blackstone,  vol.  I,  part  2,  pa.  47.  See  also  the  case  of  Coleman 
vs.  Dick  k  Patt.  I.  Wash.  233. 

R  An  exact  copy  is  in  the  possession  of  Thomas  Evans,  esquire,  of  Accomack,  now 
oue  of  the  judges  of  the  general  court,  by  whom  the  editor  was  favored  with  the  pe- 
i'i-ul  of  it. 

ee  judge  Tucker's  opinion  in  Hudgins  vs.  Wrights,  I.  Hen.  &.  Mumf.  136. 
)>  One  belonging  to  Thomas  Jefferson,  late  president  of  the  United  States ;  the  other 
pn  ii  nted  to  the  editor  by  the  court  of  Northumberland  county,  and  both  now  in  hrs 
possession'. 

'/  See  2,  Hen   and  Mumf.  14i>,  Pallas  and  others  vs.  Hill  ami  other' 
d  Code.  vol.  1   pa.  343 


via 


PREFACE. 


our  laws,  that  the  committee  declined  entering  upon  the  object  of 
their  appointment,  till  the  sense  of  the  legislature  could  be  taken  on 
this  more  enlarged  plan.  In  the  mean  time  the  operation  of  the 
act  for  collecting  and  publishing  all  the  laws  concerning  lands  was 
suspended;s  the  following  letter  from  Mr.  Jefferson  to  Mr.  Wythe, 
was  submitted  to  the  legislature,  by  governor  Monroe,  at  the  ses- 
sion of  1800,  and  a  bill  passed  the  house  of  Delegates  for  publish- 
ing a  certain  number  of  copies  of  all  the  laws ;  but  an  amendment 
ha°ving  been  introduced  in  the  Senate,  the  bill,  on  its  return  to  the 

House  of  Delegates,  was  lost. 

"  Montieello,  January  16th,  1795. 

"  In  my  letter  which  accompanied  the  box  containing   my  collec- 
tion of  printed   laws,  I  promised  to  send  you  by  post  a  statement 
of  the  contents  of  that   box.     On   taking  up  the  subject  1  found  it 
better  to  take  a  more    general    review    of  the  whole  of  the  laws  I 
possess,  as  well  manuscript  as   printed,  as  also  of  those  which  I  do 
not  possess,  and  suppose  to  be  no  longer  extant.  This  general  view 
you  will  have  in  the  inclosed  paper,  whereof  the   articles  stated  to 
be  printed,  constitute   the   contents  of  the  box  I  sent  you.     Those 
in  MS.  were  not  sent,  because   not  supposed  to  have  been  within 
your  view,  and  because  some  of  them  will  not  bear  removal,  being 
so  rotten,   that,  on  turning  over  a  leaf,  it  sometimes  falls  into  pow- 
der.    These  1  preserve  by   wrapping  and   sewing  them  up  in  oiled 
cloth,  so  that  neither  air   nor  moisture   can  have  access  to  them.— - 
Very  early  in  the  curse  of  my  researches  into  the  laws  of  Virgi- 
nia, I  observed  that   many  of  them   were   already  lost,  and  man) 
more  on  the  point  of  being  lost,  as  existing  only  in  single  copies  in 
the  hands  of  careful   or  curious  individuals,  on  whose  deaths  they 
would  probably  be  used   for  waste  paper.     I  set  myself,  therefore, 
to  work  to  collect  all  which  were  then  existing,  in  order  that  when 
the  day  should  come  in  which  the   public  should  advert  to  the  mag- 
nitude of  their  loss  in    these  precious  monuments  of  our   property 
and  our  history,  a  part  of  the  regret  might  be  spared  by  informa- 
tion that  a  portion  has  been  saved  from  the  wreck,   which   is  wor- 
thy of  their  attention  and   preservation.     In  searching  after  these 
remains,  I  spared    neither  time,  trouble  nor  expense ;  and  am  of 
opinion  that  scarcely   any  law  escaped  me,  which  was  in  being  as 
late  as  the  year  1770,  in  the  middle  or  southern  parts  of  the  state. 
In  the  northern  parts  perhaps  something  might  still  be  found.     In 
the  clerks'  offices  in  the  ancient  counties  some  of  those  MS.  copies 
of  the  laws  may  possibly  still    exit  which  used  to   be  furnished  at 
the  public  expense  to  every  county  before  the  use  of  the  press  was 
introduced ;  and  in  the  same  places,  and  in  the  hands  of  ancient  ma- 


l  See  Revised  Code,  vol.  2,  App.  No.  IX.  p  PrintH  in  ITS') 

B 


x  PREFACE. 

copy  from  the  MSS,  which  would  employ  a  clerk  about  a  year,  of 
something  more  ;  to  which  expense  about  a  fourth  should  be  added 
for  the  collation  of  the  MSS.  which  would  employ  three  persons  al 
a  time  about  half  a  day  or  a  day  in  every  week.  As  I  have  al- 
ready spent  more,  time  in  making  myself  acquainted  with  the  con- 
tents and  arrangements  of  these  MSS.  than  any  other  person  pro- 
bably ever  will,  and  their  condition  does  not  admit  their  removal 
to  a  distance,  I  will  chearfully  undertake  the  direction  and  super- 
intendance  of  this  work,  if  it  can  be  done  in  the  neighbouring  towns 
of  Charlottesville  or  Milton,  farther  than  which  I  would  not  under- 
take to  go  from  home.  For  the  residue  of  the  work  my  printed 
volumes  might  be  delivered  to  the  printer.  I  have  troubled  you 
with  these  details,  because  you  are  in  the  place  where  they  may  be 
used  for  the  public  service,  if  they  admit  of  such  use,  and  because 
the  order  of  assembly,  which  you  mention,  shews  they  are  sensible 
of  the  necessity  of  preserving  such  of  those  laws  as  relate  to  our 
landed  property,  and  a  little  further  consideration  will  perhaps  con- 
vince them  that  it  is  better  to  do  the  whole  work  once  for  all,  than 
to  be  recurring  to  it  by  peace-meal,  as  particular  parts  of  it  shall 
be  required,  and  that  too,  perhaps,  when  the  materials  shall  be  lost." 

The  editor  having  been,  for  more  than  twenty  years  engaged  in 
collecting  the  fugitive  sessions  acts,  and  believing  that  iiis  own  col- 
lection added  to  that  of  Mr.  Jefferson's  (with  which  he  was  well  as- 
sured he  would  be  furnished)  formed  the  only  one  in  existence  which 
was  worthy  of  publication,  determined  to  set  about  the  work,  lest 
by  some  accident  the  lapse  of  a  few  years  might  deprive  posterity 
of  the  remaining  documents  then  within  his  reach. 

On  communicating  his  intention  to  Mr.  Jefferson,  he  was  favored 
with  the  following  letter,  which  at  once  shews  the  degree  of  import- 
ance which  that  great  man  attaches  to  the  undertaking,  and  the 
opinion  which  he  was  pleased  to  express  of  the  editor's  competen- 
cy for  the  execution  of  it. 

Extract  of  a  Utter  from  Thomas  Jefferson,  President  of  the  United 

States,  to  Wm.  W.  Hening. 

Washington,  Jan.  14,  '07. 

" The  only  object  I  had  in  making  my  collection  of  the 

laws  of  Virginia,  was  to  save  all  those  for  the  public  which  were 
not  then  already  lost,  in  the  hope  that  at  some  future  day  they 
might  be  republished.  Whether  this  be  by  private  or  public  eu- 
terprize,  my  end  will  be  equally  answered  :  The  work  divides  it- 
si  If  into  two  very  distinct  parts,  to  wit,  the  printed  and  the  unprint- 
e  !  laws.  The  former  begin  in  1602  (Purvis's  collection.) — My 
Collection  of  these  i  See  pa.  537.         ;  March,  1659-60,  p.  530.  e  See  act  II.  of  March,  1659-60,  pa.  331 


PREFACE.  *v 

■  onnity  to  the  doctrines  and  discipline  of  the  church  of  England 
was  strictly  enjoined  ;/  all  non-conformists  were  compelled  to  leave 
the  colony,  with  all  convenience  ;g  popish  recusants  were  disabled 
from  holding  any  office,  and  their  priests  not  suffered  to  remain 
more  than  five  days  in  the  country. h  During  the  commonwealth, 
the  affairs  of  the  church  were  left  to  the  discretion  of  the  parish- 
ioners ;i  but  no  sooner  did  the  Quakers,  who  had  fled  from  the 
persecutions  in  England,  arrive  on  our  shores  than  they  were  met 
by  the  terrors  of  an  act"  for  suppressing  them  ;'7c  masters  of  ves- 
sels were  subjected  to  a  penalty  of  one  hundred  pounds  sterling 
for  each  Quaker  brought  into  the  colony;  all  Quakers  were  impri- 
soned without  bail  or  mainprize,  till  they  found  sufficient  security 
to  depart  the  colony  ;  for  returning  they  were  directed  to  be  pro- 
ceeded against  as  contemners  of  the  laws  and  magistracy,  and  pu- 
nished accordingly  ;  and  if  they  should  come  in  a  third  time  they 
were  to  be  prosecuted  as  felons.  All  persons  were  prohibited,  un- 
der the  penalty  of  one  hundred  pounds  sterling,  from  entertaining 
them,  or  permitting  their  assemblies  in  or  near  their  houses;  and  no 
person  was  permitted  to  dispose  of,  or  publish,  any  books  or  pam- 
phlets containing  the  tenets  of  their  religion./ 

It  is  worthy  of  observation  that  a  similar  principle  to  that  which 
has  obtained  in  Kentucky  with  respect  to  compensation  for  im- 
provements  made  upon  lands  by  one  man,  the  title  of  which  ap- 
peared, from  investigation,  to  be  in  another,  existed  in  a  law  of  Vir- 
ginia, so  long  ago  as  the  year  1043.     And  as  this  law  has  never  be- 
fore been  published,  we  can  only  account  for  the  coincidence,  by 
Supposing  that  mankind,  in  every  age,  placed  in  similar  situations, 
will  generally  pursue  the   same  course.     The  act,  after  reciting 
that  many  suits  had  been  commenced,   founded   on  controversies 
relating  to  land,  "  to  the  great  trouble  and  molestation  of  the  whole, 
colony,''  goes  on  to  declare,  that  if  any  man  should  settle  on  a  tract, 
of  land,  which,  on  a  just  survey,  should  prove  to  be  the  property 
of  another,  a  valuable  consideration  should  be  allowed  by  the  judg- 
ment of  twelve  men  upon  oath,  to  the  first  who  seated  it,  for  clear- 
ing and  improving  it;  but  if  the  charge  should  amount  to  more? 
than  the  real  owner  was  willing  to  give,  the  person  in  possession 
was  bound  to  keep  the  land,  and  pay  the  owner  what  it  should  be 
judged  by  twelve  men  to  be  worth,  "  before  the  seating  thereof ;" 
and,  of  course,  without  regard   to   the  improvements.     An  excep- 
tion was  made  in  favour  of  orphans  ;wi  and  afterwards  a  further 

M  pa.  123,  144,  149,  166,  180,  240,  277.  g  See  pa.  277. 

h  See  pn.  268-9.  i  See  pa.  4X:i.  I;  See  pa.  632.  /  §e«  pa.533 

Set  DCtXXXIfl  of  March,   1642-3,  pin  260 


cVi  PREFACE. 

proviso,  tint  an  allowance  for  "  building  and  clearing"  should  uuf 
be  made  to  those  who  had  "  lawful  warning"  of  a  prior  right.n— 
About  the  same  period  (1643)  the  assembly  passed  an  act  direct- 
ing that  all  process  against  debtors  lately  arrived  from  England 
(except  where  the  debts  were  contracted  for  goods  purchased  in 
England,  or  for  the  accommodation  of  planters  returning  to  this 
country)  should  be  suspended.o  This  act  is  introduced  by  a  lengthy 
preamble,  assigning  reasons  which  fully  satisfied  the  minds  of  the 
legislature  as  to  the  policy  and  even  justice  of  the  measure.  These 
laws  had  an  obvious  tendency  to  increase  the  population,  and  pro- 
mote the  improvement  of  the  country,  by  rendering  the  persons  of 
many  of  the  inhabitants  free  from  restraint,  and  by  securing  to  every 
man  the  fruits  of  his  labour. 

The  culture  of  tobacco  seems  to  have  been  a  favorite  object  with 
the  first  settlers,  and  was  the  only  staple  commodity  to  which  they 
could  be  induced  to  turn  their  attention.  In  order  to  improve  its 
quality  various  laws  were  passed  limiting  the  number  of  plants  to 
be  cultivated  by  each  hand,  and  the  leaves  to  be  gathered  from  a 
plant.ja  -  Other  details  in  the  process  of  making  it,  were  also  pre- 
scribed by  the  legislature;  and  to  insure  a  just  compensation  for 
the  labour  of  the  planter,  the  price  at  which  it  was  to  be  sold  was 
ilxed  by  the  assembly,  at  different  times. q  The  first  idea  of  in- 
specting tobacco  is  contained  in  an  act  passed  in  1630,  before  any 
warehouses  were  established.  The  process  was  very  simple,  and 
the  penalty  for  offering  unmerchantable  tobacco  in  payment  equally 
severe,  if  a  planter  offered  to  pay  away,  or  barter  any  bad  tobacco, 
the  commander  of  the  plantation  (an  officer  who  united  with  the 
powers  of  a  justice  of  the  peace,  the  supreme  military  command  of 
the  settlement)  with  two  or  three  discreet  men,  were  directed  to 
view  it,  and  if  found  of  bad  quality,  to  cause  it  to  be  burnt;  and  the 
owner  was  prohibited  from  planting  any  more  tobacco  until  author- 
ised by  the  General  Jlssembly.r  At  the  next  session  the  law  was 
amended  so  as  to  make  it  the  duty  of  the  commander  to  issue  his 
order  either  verbally  or  in  writing  to  two  "  sufficient  men"  to  view 
the  tobacco,  who  were,  in  like  manner,  to  burn  it,  if  of  bad  quali- 
ty..? The  same  law  was  re-enacted  in  the  revisal  of  1632. t  In 
1 633,  warehouses  (then  called  storehouses)  were  established,  and 
the  inspectors  were  to  be  composed  of  that  member  of  the  king's 
council,  whose  residence  was  nearest  any  warehouse,  and  the  com- 
missioners of  the  several  plantations,  as  assistants. v 

U  Spc  art  XV  of  1647,  pa.  349  And  act  XXII  of  March,  1657-8,  pa.  443,4. 
a   S.-e  net  XXIV  of  March,  1642-:jr  pa.  256. 

p  See  pa.  141,2,  152,  164,  188-9,  203,  4,  5,  6,  209,  be.         q  See  pa.  188,206,210. 
See  pa    152,  Sae  pa   Mo  t  Sec  pa.  190.  See  pa   204,211. 


PREFACE.  xvii 

To  prevent  the  recurrence  of  a  scarcity  of  corn,  which  bad  been 
severely  felt  in  the  colony,  each  master  of  a  family  was  compelled 
to  plant  and  sufficiently  tend,  two  acres  a  head,  for  each  labouring 
person  in  his  family;  and  as  an  encouragement  to  cultivate  that 
article,  the  price  was  not  to  be  limited,  but  every  planter  might 
sell  it  as  dear  as  he  could.  Nor  does  it  appear  that  the  legislature 
ever  interfered  with  the  exportation  of  corn,  or  restricted  the  price, 
except  in  times  of  pressing  want.w  In  the  year  1630,  the  contents 
of  a  barrel  of  corn  were  fixed  at  Jive  bushels,  Winchester  measure, 
and  has  so  continued  to  the  present  day.a; 

Various  and  severe  laws  were  very  early  enacted  against  forestal- 
ling and  ingrossing  imported  articles,?/  but  their  ineflieacy  having 
been  experienced,  they  were  all  repealed  and  a  free  trade  allowed.* 

The  administration  of  justice,  in  Virginia,  was  originally  ex- 
tremely cheap,  and  simple  in  its  details.  Commanders  of  planta- 
tions held  monthly  courts  for  the  trial  of  civil  actions,  not  exceed- 
ing the  value  of  one  hundred  pounds  of  tobacco,  and  for  the  pu- 
nishment of  petty  offences,!  reserving  the  right  of  appeal  to  the 
quarter  court  held  by  the  governor  and  council,  which  possessed 
the  supreme  judicial  power,  under  the  different  charters,  and  had 
original  jurisdiction  in  all  cases  whatsoever.  Commissioners  of 
monthly  courts  succeeded  to  commanders  of  plantations,  with  the 
like  jurisdiction  in  civil  cases  ;J  which  was  afterwards  extended  to 
five  pounds  sterling.6  The  jurisdiction  of  the  court  was  further 
extended  to  sixteen  hundred  pounds  of  tobacco,  and  they  were  to 
be  called  county  instead  of  monthly  courts  ;  and  that  of  a  single  ma- 
gistrate was  final  as  far  as  twenty  shillings  sterling.c  In  conse-. 
quence  of  the  great  distance  of  many  of  the  counties  from  James 
City,  where  the  quarter  courts  were  held,  jurisdiction  was  finally 
given  to  the  county  courts,  in  all  cases  of  law  and  equity,  and  the 
trial  by  jury  secured  to  those  who  desired  it.d  The  decision  of 
the  county  court  was,  at  first,  final  as  far  as  sixteen  hundred 
pounds  of  tobacco,e  and  for  all  sums  above  that  an  appeal  was  allow- 
ed to  the  quarter  court,  and  from  thence  to  the  assembly  ;/  which 
afterwards  had  jurisdiction  of  appeals  in  all  cases,  of  whatever 
amount.^-  Besides  the  general  jurisdiction  of  the  county  and  quar- 
ter courts,  special  provision  was  made  for  certain  counties  and  set- 
tlements where  it  was  considered  too  inconvenient  to  the  people 
to  attend  at  the  usual  place  of  holding  courts.  The  leading  prin- 
ciple seems  to  have  been  to  carry  justice  to  the  doors  of  the  inhabit- 
ants.    Thus,  the  county  court  of  Northampton.  "  on  account  of  its 

to  See  Index  tit.    «  Pa.  26y 


PREFACE.  xxi 

labitants  ot  many  ol' the  counties,  especially  the  poor,  who  seldom 
ised  them ;  the  law,  as  to  ferries,  was  repealed, a  and  the  county 
:ourts  vested  with  power  to  establish  ferries  on  the  application  of 
ndividuals,  and  fix  their  rates. 6     The  exclusive  right  of  establish- 
ing ferries  was  afterwards  resumed  by  the  assembly:  and  having 
exercised  it  for  a  series  of  years,  to  the  great  interruption  of  other 
public  business,  the  legislature  at  the  session  of  t80o,c  restored 
to  the  county  courts  the  power  exercised  by  them  so  long  ago  as 
the  year  1647. 

The  present  volume  iias  been  printed  entirely  from  manuscript, 
and  brings  down  the  laws  to  the  termination  of  the  commonwealth, 
in  1660.  As  these  documents  are  at  such  complete  variance  with 
the  historical  accounts  which  we  have  had  of  the  public  transac- 
tions in  Virginia,  especially  during  the  four  last  years  of  the  com- 
monwealth, I  have  felt  it  an  indispensable  duty  to  annex  copious 
notes,  explanatory  of  the  views  which  I  have  taken  ot  those  sub- 
jects d 

In  the  running  title  to  the  acts  passed  during  the  Commonwealth, 
that  term  has  been  preserved  ;  contrary  to  the  practice  in  England, 
which  has  been  to  consider  the  commonwealth,  in  the  computation 
of  the  reign  of  Charles  II.  as  a  period  which  never  existed.  Thus 
we  see  in  the  Statute-books,  and  Reporters,  the  year  1661,  which 
was  in  theirs*  year  after  Charles  II.  was  actually  at  the  head  ot 
the  government,  intituled  as  the  twelfth  year  of  his  reign.e 

In  a  work  so  laborious  as  the  present,  where  the  characters  in 
which  the  laws  are  written  are  as  difficult  to  decypher  as  the  Greek 
language  would  be  to  a  person  who  had  never  learnt  the  alphabet, 
it  is  impossible  to  avoid  the  committing  of  many  errors.  The  ef- 
fect upon  the  eye  sight,  too,  has  been  incalculably  injurious.  To 
this  cause  may,  doubtless,  be  ascribed  some  of  the  mere  literal  er- 
rors which  have  escaped  my  utmost  diligence.  But  it  is  believed 
that  few  have  passed  unnoticed  which  affect  the  sense.  The  only 
error  of  any  importance  which  I  have  to  regret,  is  in  the  arrange- 
ment of  the  acts  of  March,  1654-5,  and  1655-6.  These  were  dated 
in  the  MS.  simply  1655,  and  the  acts  of  March,  1655-6,  were  there 
placed  before  those  of  March,  1654-5.  It  was  only  by  the  subject 
matter  that  the  error  could  be  discovered  :  and  when  done,  it  was 
too  late  to  alter  the  arrangement.  The  reader  will  therefore  turn 
over  from  page  393  to  404,  and  having  gone  to  page  414,  he  will 
return  to  393. 

To  this  volume  is  prefixed  a  list  of  governors  of  Virginia,  du- 

«  Pa.  348.  b  Pa.  348, 41 1.  c  See  Revised  Code,  vol.  2,  pa.  130. 

d  See  Notes  In  pa.  358, 369,  429,  613,  626 

e  See  acts  of  1661-2,  in  vol.  2.     See  also  Hanlres's  Reports  166.     Sir  Thomas  Ray 
niond's  Report  1,  ar>^  I  Levinz's  Rep.  T 


xxii  PREFACE. 

ring  the  period  comprised  in  it,  taken  from  an  annent  manuscript, 
with  which  the  editor  was  favored  by  Mr.  Jefferson,  late  President 
of  the  United  States.  A  similar  list  will  be  prefixed  to  each  vo- 
lume :  and  at  the  end  of  the  work,  a  complete  table,  exhibiting  an 
historical  view  of  the  formation,  boundaries,  and  variation  in  the 
names  of  the  several  counties  in  Virginia  will  be  given. 

The  Ancient  Charters  to  the  first  adventurers,  forming  a  mass  of 
important  information,  have  hitherto  been  of  very  difficult  access; 
and  some  of  them  existing  only  in  manuscript,  it  was  thought  that 
a  general  collection  of  them  would  greatly  add  to  the  utility  of  the 
work. — They  have  accordingly  been  compiled  and  printed  from 
the  best  authorities. 

As  an  introduction  to  the  laws  of  an  onceinfant  colony,  it  has  been 
deemed  proper  to  notice  those  acts  of  sovereignty,  which  the  peo- 
ple were  either  compelled  to  resort  to,  when  the  oppressions  of  the 
mother  country,  left  them  no  alternative  hut  absolute  slavery,  or  the 
formation  of  an  independent  government ;  or  which  their  more  mature 
judgment  induced  them  to  adopt.  With  this  view,  the  Constitu- 
tion of  the  United  States,  with  the  latest  amendments;  the 
Declaration  of  Independence  ;  the  Articles  of  Confedera- 
tion; the  Declaration  of  Rights,  and  Constitution  of  Vir- 
ginia have  been  inserted.  But  the  people  of  Virginia,  represent- 
ed in  convention,  being  theirs*  to  proclaim  the  idea  of  American 
Independence,  that  solemn  act  may,  with  propriety,  claim  the 
first  place  in  a  collection  of  their  laws ;  and  has  accordingly  been 
inserted. 

WILLIAM  WALLER  HENING, 

Richmond,  29th  August,  1809. 


PREFACE 


THE  SECOND  EDITION. 


By  the  act  of  the  5  th  day  of  February,  1808,  authorizing  the 
editor  to  publish  the  Statutes  at  Large,  and  prescribing  the  mode  of 
authentication,  one  hundred  and  fifty  copies  were  subscribed  for, 
on  behalf  of  the  commonwealth  ;  which  added  to  two  hundred 
copies  printed  for  the  use  of  the  editor's  subscribers,  made  the  im- 
pression three  hundred  and  fifty  copies  only.  Under  this  sub- 
scription, the  work  progressed  to  the  end  of  the  4th  volume,  when  the 
aiterruptions  produced  by  the  late  war,  and  the  death  of  the  pub- 
lisher, Mr.  Samuel  Pleasants,  Junr.  occasioned  its  suspension. 
When  the  committee  on  the  Revised  Code  of  1819,  reported  to 
the  legislature,  they  so  strongly  recommended  the  continuation  of 
die  Statutes  at  Large,  that  the  act  of  the  10th  of  March,  1819,  was 
passed.  By  this  act,  the  subscription,  on  behalf  of  the  state, 
was  increased  to  eight  hundred  copies  ;  but  no  provision  was 
made  for  completing  the  sets  with  the  first  four  volumes.  The 
first  volume  having  been  long  out  of  print,  and  the  state  having 
a  large  surplus  of  the  5th  and  subsequent  volumes,  the  act  of 
the  24th  of  January,  1823,  was  passed,  which  provides  for  com- 
pleting the  sets,  and  appropriates  the  proceeds  of  the  sales  of  500 
copies,  under  the  superintendence  of  the  executive,  to  the  purchase 
of  a  public  library. 

In  the  first  edition,  commencing  on  page  238,  the  caption  of 
the  acts  states  them  to  have  been  taken  from  a  MS.  belonging  to 
Edmund  Randolph,  Esq.  The  volume  was  received  from  that  gen- 
tleman, by  the  editor,  who  understood  it  to  be  his  property.  But 
from  two  letters  addressed  to  the  editor  by  Thomas  Jefferson,  Esq., 
late  President  of  the  United  States,  the  one  dated  the  25th  of 
April,  J  81 5,  the  other  the  3d  of  September,  1820,  there  was  such 


xxiv  PREFACE. 

conclusive  evidence  that  the  MS.  belonged  to  him,  and  had  been 
borrowed,  from  his  library,  by  Edmund  Randolph,  Esq.,  when  he 
contemplated  writing  a  history  of  Virginia,  that  it  has  been  sent 
to  the  library  of  Congress,  with  the  other  MSS.  included  in  Mr. 
Jefferson's  Catalogue.  The  error  in  the  caption  has  been  correct- 
ed in  this  edition. 

WILLIAM  WALLER  HENJNG. 

Richmond,  January  30th.  1823. 


"A 


mBi^  ©3?  oomnnnrs 


c>* 


Page. 


9 

31 

32 

36 

37 

46 

47 

49 

50 

56 

LIST  of  Governors  of  Virginia,  during  the  period 
comprised  in  this  volume       -----         3 

Resolution  of  the  Convention  of  Virginia,  authorising 
their  Delegates  in  Congress  to  declare  American  In- 
dependence --___.  _6 

Constitution  of  the  United  States,  with  the  latest  amend- 
ments -------- 

Declaration  of  Independence  - 

Articles  of  Confederation  - 

Declaration  of  Rights  of  Virginia    - 

Constitution  of  Virginia  - 

Ancient  Charters  relating  to  the  first  settlement  of  Vir- 
ginia, viz  :  First  Charter,  or  Letters  Patent  of  King 
James  I.  to  Sir  Thomas  Gates  and  others,  for  two 
several  colonies  and  plantations  in  Virginia  (April 
10th,  1606) 57       66 

Articles,  Instructions,  &c.  for  the  two  several  colonies 

and  plantations  in  Virginia,  (Nov.  20th,  1606)  67       75 

Ordinance  and  Constitution  of  King  James  1.  enlarg- 
ing the  number  of  the  council  for  the  two  several  co- 
lonies, &c.  (March  9th,  1607)        -         -         -         -       76       79 

Second  Charter  of  King  James  I.  to  the  Treasurer  and 
Company,  erecting  them  into  a  body  politic,   &ic. 

(May  23d,  1609) SO       98 

Third  Charter  of  King  James  I.  to  the  Treasurer  and 
Company  for  Virginia,  (March  12th,  1611-12)       -       98     110 

Ordinance  and  Constitution  of  the  Treasurer  and  Com- 
pany, for  a  Council  of  State  and  General  Assembly 
(July  24th,  1621)  .     HO     113 

Commission  to  Sir  Francis  Wyatt,  he.  first  Governor 
under  the  Ordinance  and  Constitution  for  a  General 
Assembly  (July  24th,  1 6il)  -         -         -         -     113     114 

Instructions  to  Governor  Wyatt  (Jul v  24th,  1621)      -     114     118 

A 


%  CONTENTS. 

Acts  of  Assembly  of  June,  1619  - 

of  March,  1623-4    - 

from  1623-4  to  1629 

of  October,  1629      - 

of  March,  1629-30 

of  February,  !  631-2 

of  September,  1632 

of  February,  1632-3 

of  August,  1633       - 

of  January,  1 638-9 

of  1642  .... 

of  March,  1642  3     - 

of  October,  1644      - 

of  February,  1644-5 

of  November,  1645 

of  March,  1645  6 

of  October,  1646      ... 

of  November,  i  U47 

of  October,  1648      - 

of  October,  1649     - 
Articles  at  the  surrender  of  the  Country,  he. 
For  the  surrendering  Virginia  to  the  subjection  of  the 

Parliament  of  the  Commonwealth  of  England,  67c. 
Act  of  Indemnity  at  the  surrender  of  the  Country 
Acts  of  Assembly  of  April,  1652  - 

of  July,  1053 

of  November,  1654 

of  March,  1654-5     - 

of  March,  1655  6     - 

of  December,  1656 

of  March,  1657-8    - 

of  March,  1658  9     - 

of  March,  U5S9-60  - 
Index 


119 

120 

121 

1'8 

129 

136 

137 

144 

147 

152 

152 

177 

178 

202 

202 

209 

209 

224 

224 

230 

230 

238 

238 

282 

282 

283 

288 

298 

298 

309 

309 

321 

322 

3S8 

389 

352 

352 

357 

358 

363 

363 

36* 

365 

367 

367 

368 

369 

377. 

377 

385 

386 

393 

404 

414 

393 

403 

414 

428 

429 

505 

505 

o  -~*y 

526 

■  % 

553 

600 

GOVERNORS 


«P  VIRGINIA  DURING  THE  PERIOD    COMPRISED  IN  THIS 

VOLUME. 


KrThis  MS. 

is  now  in  th& 
library  of 
Congress,  at 


Washington. 


Sir  Thomas 


[From  a  MS.  belonging?  to  Thomas  Jeferson,  Presi- 
dent of  the  United  States,  and  purchased  by  him  from 
the  Executor  of  Richard  Bland,  dec'd*] 

SIR  Thomas  Smith,  Knt.  was  treasurer  and  Go- 
vernor of  the  Company  during  the  first  twelve  year  Smitht 
which  ended  the  18th  of  November,  1618.f 

Sir  George  Yeardley  was  Governor  from  the   18th  Sir  George 
of  November,  1618,  till  the  18th  of  November,  1621.  Yeardley. 

Sir  Francis  Wyatt  was  Governor  to  the  Company   Sir  Francis 
from  the  18th  of  November,  1621,  till  the  26th  of  Au-  Wyatt 
gust.    22d.  Jac.  1.     And  then  the  King  granted  him 
a  commission  to  be  Governor  till  some  other  course 
should  be  settled  and  resolved    upon.     But  George 
Wyatt,  Esq.  father  of  the  Governor  dying  in  Ireland, 
the  Governor  got  leave  from  the  King,  dated  the  18th 
of  Sept.  in  the  same  year,  to  go  to  Ireland  to  manage 
his  affaires,  and  at  the  s-ame  time  sent  a  commission  to 
Sir  George  Yeardley  to  be  Governor  in  the  absence  of  Sir  Georg* 
Sir  Francis,  or  in  case  of  his  death,  to  be  chief  Govern- 

*  This  list  of  governors  is  at  the  end  of  the  volume,  and  is  bro't. 
down  to  the  year  1722,  when  Alexander  Spotswood  ceased  to  be  go- 
vernor and  was  succeeded  by  Hugh  Drysdale  ;  who  dying  in  1726, 
and  Jennings  the  president  of  the  council  being  suspended,  Col.  Ro- 
bert Carter  took  upon  himself  the  administration  of  the  government, 
as  president  of  the  council  This  manuscript  appears  to  be  in  the 
hand-writing  of  R.  Hickman,  who,  as  clerk  to  the  secretary's  office; 
has  attested  several  of  the  public  papers. 

t  The  administration  of  Sir  Thomas  Smith  must  be  understood  as 
confined  to  a  presidency  of  the  council  and  company  in  England, 
while  the  affairs  of  the  colony  were  managed  by  one  council  resi- 
dent there.  He  was  never  actualry  governor  in  Virginia — (see  Bui  k's 
hist.  Virg.  vol.  I  pa.  92  )  During  the  time  that  Sir  Thomas  Smith 
was  Treasurer  and  president  of  the  company  in  England,  the  follow- 
ing were  the  presidents  of  the  council,  and  governors  in  Virginia 
i-i  president  of  the  council,  Edward  Maria  Wingfield.  2d.  John 
Radcliffe.  3d.  John  Smith.  4th  George  Percy.  1st  Governor. 
Lord  De  la  War  2d  Sir  Thomas  Dale.  3d.  Sir  Thomas  Gates.  4th 
Sfcr  Thomas  Dale  5th.  r'ppt.  George  Yeardley.   6th.  Capt.  Argall. 


LIST  OF  GOVERNORS 


£apt   Francis 
West. 


John  Pott. 


Sir  John 
Harvey . 


Capt.  John 
West. 


Sir  John 

Harvey. 


Sir  Francis 
Wvatt. 


Sir  William 
Berkeley. 


or.  Sir  George  Yeardley  by  virtue  of  that  commission 
on  continued  Governor  till  the  19th  April,  1626,  when 
a  commission  was  granted  him  by  King  Charles  the 
1st  to  be  chief  Governor,  in  which  post  he  continued 
as  lonpc  as  he  lived.  And  the  day  after  he  was  buried, 
being  the  14th  November,  1627,  and  according  to  his 
majesties  commission  to  the  council  for  that  purpose 
Capt.  Francis  West  was  elected  Governor. 

Capt.  Francis  West  continued  Governor  till  the  5th 
March,  162S,  and  then  (he  being  designed  to  go  for 
England)  John  Pott,  Esq.  was  elected  Governor  by 
the  Council. 

John  Pott,  Esq.  continued  Governor  till  some  time 
between  October  and  March,  1629  :  for  on  the  4th  of 
March  the  Quarter  Court  ordered  an  assembly  to  be 
called  to  meet  Sir  John  Harvey  .on  the  24th,  and  no- 
thing was  done  after  8br.  in  Pott's  name  that  can  be 
found. 

Sir  John  Harvey  continued  Governor  till  1635,  and 
the  people  being  enraged  at  some  mismanagements  of 
his,  petitioned  for  an  Assembly  to  hear  their  complaints 
against  hiin,  and  an  Assembly  was  called  accordingly. 
But  before  they  met  he  agreed  in  Council  to  go  to 
England  to  answer  them  and  upon  that,  Capt.  John 
West  was  elected  Governor. 

How  long  John  West  governed  is  uncertain,  but  it  ap- 
pears by  a  paper  among  the  damnified  records,  that  he 
was  out  the  3d  Jan.  1636,  and  Harvey,  Governor  again. 
There  is  a  pattent  granted  by  Harvey  13th  April,  1636. 

Harvey,  after  that  continued  Governor  till  Novem- 
ber, 1639,  and  then  Sir  Francis  Wyatt  came  in  with 
a  commission  to  be  Governor. 

Sir  Francis  Wyatt  continued  Governor  till  Februa- 
ry, 1641,  and  then  came  Sir  William  Berkley  in  Go- 
vernor. 

Sir  William  Berkley  continued  Governor  till  the  lat- 
ter end  of  June,  1644.  and  then  returned  to  England, 
whereupon  the  Council  elected  Richard  Kempe,  Esg- 
Governor, 


OF  VIRGINIA. 


.-> 


Richard  Kempe  continued  till  Sir  William  returned 
back  which  was  about  the  16th  of  June,  1645. 

Sir  William  Berkley,  after  that  continued  Governor 
till  the  spring,  1652,  and  then  Richard  Bennett,  Esq. 
was  Governor. 

Richard  Bennett  continued  till  1655,  and  then  Ed- 
ward Digges,  Esq.  was  made  Governor. 

Digges  continued  till  between  February,  1656  and 
the  April  following,  and  then  Samuel  Mathews  was 
made  Governor. 

Samuel  Mathews,  Esq.  continued  till  January,  1659 
and  died.  And  before  23d  March  next  the  Assembly 
elected*  Sir  William  Berkeley  Governor  :  for  that  day 
he  sat  in  court. 


Richard 
K  mpe. 

Sir  William 
Berkeley. 


Richard  Ben- 
nett. 

Edward 
Disfs.es. 


Samuel  Mat 
thews. 

Sir  William 
Berkeley. 


*  This  account  of  the  election  of  Sir  Win.  Berkeley  by  the  as- 
sembly, is  entirely  supported  by  the  public  records — See  act  II  of 
March,  1659-60,  page  530.  The  last  four  Governors,  in  this  list, 
Bennett,  Digges,  Matthews  and  Berkeley  were  appointed  by  the 
assembly  of  Virginia,  during  the  existence  of  the  commonwealth  of 
England,  and  not  by  the  parliament  or  Cromwell,  as  erroneoush 
represented  by  Robertson  and  other  historians — Sc*?  note  to  page 
526 


mm 


OF   THE 


CONVENTION  OF  VIRGINIA, 

INSTRUCTING    THEIR    REPRESENTATIVES    IN    CONGRESS    TO    PROPOSE 

&  ©cclaratiou  oC  Kuticpewtreuce. 

[Unanimously  agreed  to,  on   Wednesday  the  15th  of  May,  1776, 

one  hundred  and  twelve  members  being  present. 

See  Journ.  Conv.  pa.  31.] 

FORASMUCH  as  all  the  endeavours  of  the  United  Colonies, 
by  the  most  decent  representations  and  petitions  to  the  King  and 
Parliament  of  Great  Britain,  to  restore  peace  and  security  to 
America  under  the  British  government,  and  a  re-union  with  that 
people  upon  just  and  liberal  terms,  instead  of  a  redress  of  griev- 
ances, have  produced,  from  an  imperious  and  vindictive  adminis- 
tration, increased  insult,  oppression,  and  a  vigorous  attempt  to 
effect  our  total  destruction.  By  a  late  act,  all  these  Colonies  are 
declared  to  be  in  rebellion,  and  out  of  the  protection  of  the  British 
crown,  our  properties  subjected  to  confiscation,  our  people,  when 
captivated,  compelled  to  join  in  the  murder  and  plunder  of  their 
relations  and  countrymen,  and  all  former  rapine  and  oppression  of 
Americans  declared  legal  and  just  Fleets  and  armies  are  raised, 
and  the  aid  of  foreign  troops  engaged  to  assist  these  destructive 
purposes.  The  King's  representative  in  this  colony  hath  not  only 
withheld  all  the  powers  of  government  from  operating  for  our  safety, 
but  having  retired  on  board  an  armed  ship,  is  carrying  on  a  piratical 
and  savage  war  against  us,  tempting  our  slaves,  by  every  artifice  to  re- 
sort to  him,  and  training  and  employing  them  against  their  masters. 
In  this  state  of  extreme  danger,  we  have  no  alternative  left  but  an 
abject  submission  to  the  will  of  those  overbearing  tyrants,  or  a  total 
separation  from  the  crown  and  government  of  Great  Britain,  uni- 
ting and  exerting  the  strength  of  ail  America  for  defence,  and  form- 
ing alliances  with  foreign  powers  for  commerce  and  aid  in  war  : 
Wherefore,  appealing  to  the  Searcher  of  Hearts  for  the  sin- 
cerity of  former  declarations,  expressing  our  desire  to  preserve 
the  connexion  with  that  nation,  and  that  we  are  driven  from  that 
inclination  by  their  wicked  councils,  and  the  eternal  laws  of  self- 
preservation, 


8  RESOLUTION,  &c. 

Resolved  unanimously,  That  the  delegates  appointed  to  represent 
this  Colony  in  General  Congress,  be  instructed  to  propose  to  that 
respectable  body,  to  declare  the  United  Colonies  free  and  indepen- 
dent States,  absolved  from  all  allegiance  to,  or  dependence  upon 
the  crown  or  parliament  of  Great  Britain  ;  and  that  they  give  the 
assent  of  this  Colony  to  such  declaration,  and  to  whatever  mea- 
sures may  be  thought  proper  and  necessary  by  the  Congress  for 
forming  foreign  alliances,  and  a  confederation  of  the  colonies,  at 
such  time,  and  in  the  manner,  as  to  them  shall  seem  best :  Provided, 
that  the  power  of  forming  government  for,  and  the  regulations,  of 
lhe  internal  concerns  of  each  colony,  be  left  to  the  respective  colo- 
nial legislatures. 

Resolved  unanimously,  That  a  committee  be  appointed  to  prepare 

i  Declaration  of  Rights,  and  such  a  plan  of  government  as  will 

be  most  likely  to  maintain   peace    and   order  in   this  colony,  and 

:ure  substantial  and  equal  liberty  to  the  people. 


©HS^ttaTCPiKIt© 


OF    THE 


UNITED   STATES, 


We  the  people  of  the  United  States,  in  order  to  form 
a  more  perfect  Union,  establish  Justice,  insure  Domes- 
tic Tranquillity,  provide  for  the  Common  Defence, 
promote  the  General  Welfare,  and  secure  the  Bless- 
ings of  Liberty  to  Ourselves  and  our  Posterity,  do 
ordain  and  establish  this  Constitution  for  the 
United  States  of  AMERICA. 

ARTICLE  I. 

Section  I. 

ALL  legislative    po  •  ers  herein  granted   shall  be  Of  the  legisla- 
vested  in  a  CONGRESS  of  the  United  States,  which  tive  pmve'' 
shall  consist  of  a  Senate  and  House  of  Representatives. 

Section  II. 

The  House  of  Representatives  shall  be  composed  °/ ^ "s°euns.e 
of  members  chosen  every  second  year,  by  the  people  tatives. 
of  the  several  states  ;  and  the  electors  in  each  state 
shall  have  the  qualifications  requisite  for  electors  of 
the  most  numerous  branch  of  the  state  legislature. 

No  person  shall  be  a  representative  who  shall  not 
have  attained  to  the  age  of  twenty  five  years,  and  been 
seven  years  a  citizen  of  the  United  States,  and  who  shall 
not,  when  elected,  be  an  inhabitant  of  that  state  in 
which  he  shall  be  chosen. 

Representatives  and  direct  taxes  shall  be  apportioned 
among  the  several  states  which  may  be  included  within 
this  union,  according  to  their  respective  numbers,  which 
shall  he  determined  bv  adding  to  the  whole  number  of 

n 


10  CONSTITUTION  OP 

free  persons,  including  those  bound  to  service  for  a 
term  of  years,  and  excluding  Indians  not  taxed,  three- 
fifths  of  ail  other  persons.  The  actual  enumeration 
shall  be  made  within  three  years  after  the  first  meeting 
of  the  Congress  of  the  United  States,  and  within  every 
subsequent  term  of  ten  }ears,  in  such  manner  as  they 
shall  by  law  direct.  The  number  of  representatives 
shall  not  exceed  one  for  every  thirty  thousand,  but 
each  state  shall  have  at  least  one  representative  ;  and 
until  such  enumeration  shall  be  made,  the  state  of  New- 
Hamp shire  shall  be  entitled  to  choose  three,  Massachu- 
setts eight,  Rhode-Island  and  Providence- Plantations 
one,  Connecticut  five,  Mew-York  six,  JVezo- Jersey  four. 
Pennsylvania  eight,  Delaware  one,  Maryland  six,  Vir- 
ginia ten,  North-Carolina  five,  South-Carolina  five,  and 
Georgia  three. 

When  vacancies  happen  in  the  representation  from 
any  state,  the  executive  authority  thereof  shall  issue 
writs  of  election  to  fill  such  vacancies. 

The  House  of  Representatives  shall  choose  their 
Speaker  and  other  officers,  and  shall  have  the  sole 
power  of  impeachment. 

Section  III. 
Of  the  Senate.       The  Senate  of  the  United  States  shall  be  composed 
of  two  Senators  from  each  state,  chosen  by  the  Legis- 
lature thereof,  for  six  years  ;  and  each  Senator  shall 
have  one  vote. 

Immediately  after  they  shall  be  assembled  in  conse- 
quence of  the  first  election,  they  shall  be  divided,  as 
equally  as  may  be,  into  three  classes.  The  seats  of 
the  Senators  of  the  first  class  shall  be  vacated  at  the 
expiration  of  the  second  year,  of  the  second  class  at 
the  expiration  of  the  fourth  year,  and  of  the  third  class 
at  the  expiration  of  the  sixth  year,  so  that  one  third 
may  be  chosen  every  second  year  ;  and  if  vacancies 
happen  by  resignation  or  otherwise,  during  the  recess 
of  the  legislature  of  any  state,  the  executive  thereof 
may  make  temporary  appointments  until  the  next  meet- 
ing of  the  legislature,  which  shall  then  fill  such  vacan- 
cies. 

No  person  shall  be  a  Senator  Mrho  shall  not  have  at- 
tained to  the  age  of  thirty  years,  and  been  nine  years 
a  citizen  of  the  United  States,  and  who  shall  not  when 
elected,  be  an  inhabitant  of  that  *m\i'.  for  which  h« 
    •    \  j  \.  l     •  j  u    of  the  powers 

year  1S08,  but  a  tax  or  duty  may  be  imposed  on  such  of  congress. 
importation,  not  exceeding  ten  dollars  for  each  person. 

The  privilege  of  the  writ  of  habeas  corpus  shall  not 
be  suspended,  unless  when  in  cases  of  rebellion  or  in- 
vasion the  public  safety  may  require  it. 

No  bill  of  attainder,  or  ex  post  facto  law  shall  be 
passed. 

No  capitation,  or  other  direct  tax,  shall  be  laid,  unless 
in  proportion  to  the  census  or  enumeration  herein  be- 
fore directed  to  be  taken. 

No  tax  or  duty  shall  be  laid  on  articles  exported  from 
any  state.  No  preference  shall  be  given  by  any  regu- 
lation of  commerce  or  revenue  to  the  ports  of  one  state 
over  those  of  another  ;  nor  shall  vessels  bound  to  or 
from  one  state,  be  obliged  to  enter,  clear  or  pay  duties 
in  another. 

No  money  shall  be  drawn  from  the  treasury,  but  in 
consequence  of  appropriations  made  by  law  ;  and  a 
regular  statement  and  account  of  the  receipts  and  ex- 
penditures of  all  public  money,  shall  be  published  from 
time  to  time. 

No  title  of  nobility  shall  be  granted  by  the  United 
States  :  And  no  person  holding  any  office  of  profit  or 
trust  under  them,  shall  without  the  consent  of  the  Con- 
gress, accept  of  any  present,  emolument,  office  or  title 
of  any  kind  whatever,  from  any  king,  prince  or  fo- 
reign state. 

Section  X. 

No  state  shall  enter  into  any  treaty,  alliance  or  con-     Limitation  of 
federation  ;  grant  letters  of  marque  and  reprisal ;  coin  the  powers  of 
money;  emit  bills  of  credit ;  make  any  thing  but  gold  *he  individual 
and  silver  coin  a  tender  in  payment  of  debts  ;  pass  any 
bill  of  attainder,  ex  post  facto  law,  or  law  impairing 
the  obligation  of  contracts,  or  grant  any  title  of  nobility. 

Nostate  shall,  without  the  consent  of  the  Congress,lay 
any  imposts  or  duties  on  imports  or  exports,  except 
what  may  be  absolutely  necessary  for  executing  its  in- 
spection laws  :  and  the  net  produce  of  all  duties  and 
impost^.  laid  hv  onv  state  on  imports  or  exports,  shall 


& 


CONSTITUTION  OF 


The  Executive 
power  to  be 
vested  in  a 
President. 


Manner  of 
electing  the 
President  and 
Vice-Presi- 
dent. 


be  for  the  use  of  the  treasury  of  the  United  States  ; 
and  all  such  laws  *>hall  be  subject  to  the  revision  and 
controul  of  the  Congress.  No  state  shall,  without  the 
consent  of  Congress,  lay  any  duty  of  tonnage,  keep 
troops  or  ships  of  war  in  time  of  peace,  enter  into  any 
agreement  or  compact  with  another  state,  or  with  a 
foreign  power,  or  engage  in  war,  unless  actually  in- 
vaded, or  in  such  imminent  danger  as  will  not  admit 
of  delay. 

ARTICLE  II. 

Section  I. 

The  executive  power  shall  be  vested  in  a  President 
of  the  United  States  of  America.  He  shall  hold  his 
office  during  the  term  of  four  years,  and,  together  with 
the  Vice-President,  chosen  for  the  same  term,  be  elect- 
ed as  follows  : 

Each  state  shall  appoint  in  such  manner  as  the  Le- 
gislature thereof  may  direct,  a  number  of  electors,  equal 
to  the  whole  number  of  Senators  and  representatives 
to  which  the  state  may  be  entitled  in  the  Congress;  but 
no  Senator  or  representative,  or  person  holding  an 
office  of  trust  or  profit  under  the  United  States,  shall 
be  appointed  an  elector. 

*[The  electors  shall  meet  in  their  respective  states, and 
vote  by  ballot  for  two  persons,  ofwhom  one  at  least  shall 
not  be  an  inhabitant  of  the  same  state  with  themselves. 
And  they  shall  make  a  list  of  all  the  persons  voted  for, 
and  of  the  number  of  votes  for  each;  which  list  they  shall 
sign  and  certify,  and  transmit  sealed  to  the  seat  of  the 
government  of  the  United  States,  directed  to  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  Senate.  The  President  of  the  Senate  shall, 
in  the  presence  of  the  Senate  and  House  of  Representa- 
tives, open  all  the  certificates,  and  the  votesshall  then  be 
counted.  The  person  having  the  greatest  number  of  votes 
shall  be  the  President,  if  such  number  be  a  majority  of 
the  whole  number  of  electors  appointed  ;  and  if  there  be 
more  than  one  who  have  such  majority,and  have  an  equal 
number  of  votes,  then  the  House  of  Representatives  shall 


*  In  lieu  of  this  paragraph,  another  has  been  adopted,  as  an  amend • 
inent,  by  which  the  electors  arc  to  distinguish  in  their  votes,  those 
given  for  President,  from  those  ?iven  for  We-President.  See  the 
amendment,  post  NTo    14 


THE  UNITED  STATES.  17 

immediately  choose,  by  ballot,  one  of  them  tor  President 
and  if  no  person  have  a  majority,  then  from  the  five  high- 
est on  the  list,  the  said  House  shall,  in  like  manner, 
choose  the  President.  But  in  choosing  the  President,  the 
votes  shall  be  taken  by  states,  the  representation  from  each 
state  having  one  vote:  a  quorum  for  this  purpose  shall 
consist  of  a  member  or  members  from  two-thirds  of  the 
states,  and  a  majority  of  all  the  states  shall  be  necessary 
to  a  choice.  In  every  case,  after  the  choice  of  the  Presi- 
dent, the  person  having  the  greatest_number  of  votes  of 
the  electors,  shall  be  the  Vice-President.  But  if  tl>  e 
should  remain  two  or  more  who  have  equal  votes,  the 
Senate  shall  choose  from  them,  by  ballot,  the.Vice-Prt si- 
dent.] 

The  Congress  may  determine  the  time  of  choosing  die 
electors,  and  the  day  on  which  they  shall  give  their  votes ; 
which  day  shall  be  the  same  throughout  the  United 
States. 

No  person,  except  a  natural   born  citizen,  or  a  citizen   Vfhv  cany 
of  the  United  States,  at  the  time  of  the  adoption  of  thi  '* 

Constitution,  shall  be  eligible  to  the  office  of  President; 
neither  shall  any  person  be  eligible  to  that  office,  who 
shall  not  have  attained  to  the  age  of  thirty-five  years,  and 
been  fourteen  years  a  resident  within  the  United  States. 

In  case  of  the  removal  of  the  President  from  office,  or  *.•  ••; ■•.*  of 
of  his  death,  resignation  or  inability  to  discharge   th  '" 

powers  and  duties  of  the  said  office,  the  same  shall  d  at 


2© 


CONSTITUTION  OF 


Of  trea- 


SOB 


Faith  to 
fee  given 
to  public 
acts,  &c. 
ef  each 
state. 


-Privileges 
of  citizens 
to  extend 
thro'  all 
the  states. 
Fugitives 
from  jus- 
tice to  be 
delivered 
up. 


Persons 

Jield  to 
service  ov 
labor,  to 
fcedeli- 
  fixed  for  the  election  of  the  Presi- 
dent, and  should  transmit  their  votes,  certified,  signed, 
sealed  and  directed,  as  the  Constitution  requires,  to  the 
Secretary  of  the  United  States,  in  Congress  assembled; 
that  the  Senators  and  Representatives  should  convene  at 
the  time  and  place  assigned  ;  that  the  Senators  should  ap- 
point a  President  of  the  Senate,  for  the  sole  purpose  of  re- 
ceiving, opening  and  counting  the  votes  for  President; 
and,  that  after  he  shall  be  chosen,  the  Congress,  together 
with  the  President,  should,  without  delay,  proceed  to  ex- 
ecute this  Constitution.  4 

By  the  unanimous  order  of  the  Convention; 

GEORGE  WASHINGTON,  President 

W.  Jackson,  Secretary. 


IN  CONVENTION, 

September  17th,  1781 
Sir, 

WE  have  now  the  honor  to  submit  to  the  considera- 
tion of  the  United  States  in  Congress  assembled,  that 
Constitution  which  has  appeared  to  us  the  most  ad  vise- 
able. 

The  friends  of  our  country  have  long  seen  and  desired, 
that  the  power  of  making  war,  peace  and  treaties,  that  of 
levying  money,  and  regulating  commerce,  and  the  corres- 
pondent executive  and  judicial  authorities,  should  be  ful- 
ly and  effectually  vested  in  the  general  government  of  the 
Union  :  But  the  impropriety  of  delegating  such  exten- 
sive trust  to  one  body  of  men,  is  evident — Hence  results 
the  necessity  of  a  different  organization. 

It  is  obviously  impracticable  in  the  federal  government 
of  these  states,  to  secure  all  rights  of  independent  sove- 
reignty to  each,  and  yet  provide  for  the  interest  and  safe- 
ty of  all — Individuals  entering  into  society  must  give  up  a 
share  of  liberty  to  preserve  the  rest.  The  magnitude  of 
the  sacrifice  must  depend  as  well  on  situation  and  cir- 
cumstance, as  on  the  object  to  be  obtained.     It  is  at  all 


THE  UNITED  STATES.  25 

nines  difficult  to  draw  with  precision  the  line  between 
those  rights  which  must  be  surrendered,  and  those  which 
may  be  reserved  ;  and  on  the  present  occasion  this  diffi- 
culty was  increased  by  a  difference  among  the  several 
states  as  to  their  situation,  extent,  habits,  and  particular 
interests. 

In  all  our  deliberations  on  this  subject,  we  kept  stea- 
dily in  our  view,  that  which  appears  to  us  the  greatest  in- 
terest of  every  true  American,  the  consolidation  of  our 
union,  in  which  is  involved  our  prosperity,  felicity,  safety, 
perhaps  our  national  existence.  This  important  conside- 
ration, seriously  and  deeply  impressed  in  our  minds,  led 
each  state  in  the  Convention  to  be  less  rigid  on  points 
of  inferior  magnitude,  than  might  have  been  otherwise 
expected  j  and  thus  the  Constitution,  which  we  now  pre- 

it,  is  the  result  of  a  spirit  of  amity,  and  of  that,  mutual 
deference  and  concession  which  the  peculiarity  of  our  po- 
litical situation  rendered  indispensable. 

That  it  will  meet  the  full  and  entire  approbation  of  eve- 
ry state,  is  not,  perhaps  to  be  expected  ;  but  each  will 
doubtless  consider,  that  had  her  interest  been  alone  con- 
sulted, the  consequences  might  haVe  been  particularly 
disagreeable  or  injurious  to  others :  that  it  is  liable  to  as 
few  exceptions  as  could  reasonably  have  been  expected; 
we  hope  and  believe  ;  that  it  may  promote  the  lasting 
welfare  of  that  country  so  dear  to  us  all,  and  secure  her 
freedom  and  happiness,  is  our  most  ardent  wish.  With 
gjreat  respect,  we  have  the  honor  to  be,  Sir,  your  ex- 
cellency's most  obedient  and  humble  servants, 

GEO.  WASHINGTON,  President. 

By  unanimous  order  of  the  Convention. 

His  Excellency  the  Pre-  \ 
rident  of  Cnnarcss.      S 


D 


26  CONSTITUTION  OF 

THE  UNITED  STATES  IN  CONGRESS  ASSEMBLED. 

Friday,  September  28th,  1787. 

Present — New-Hampshire,  Massachusetts,  Connecticut, 
New- York,  New- Jersey,  Pennsylvania,  Delaware,  Vir- 
ginia, North-Carolina,  South-Carolina  and  Georgia, 
and  from  Maryland,  Mr.  Ross. 

Congress  having  received  the  report  of  the  Convention 
lately  assembled  in  Philadelphia. 

Resolved  unanimously, 

THAT  the  said  report,  with  the  resolutions  and  letter 
accompanying  the  same,  be  transmitted  to  the  several  le- 
gislatures, in  order  to  be  submitted  to  a  convention  of 
Delegates,  chosen  in  each  state  by  the  people  thereof,  in 
conformity  to  the  resolves  of  the  Convention,  made  and 
provided  in  that  case. 

CHARLES  THOMSON,  Secretary. 


CONGRESS  OF  THE  UNITED   STATES, 

Begun  and  held  at  the  City  of  New-York,  on  Wednesday 
the  fourth  of  March,  one  thousand  seven  hundred  and 
eighty-nine. 


The  Conventions  of  a  number  of  States,  having,  at  the 
time  of  their  adopting  the  Constitution,  expressed  a 
desire,  in  order  to  prevent  misconstruction  or  abuse  of 
its  powers,  that  further  declaratory  and  restrictive  clau- 
ses should  be  added  :  And,  as  extending  the  ground  of 
public  confidence  in  the  government,  will  best  insure 
the  beneficent  ends  of  its  institution  : 

RESOLVED  by  the  Senate  and  House  of  Repre- 
sentatives of  the  United  States  of  America,  in  Congress 
assembled,  two-thirds  of  both  Houses  concurring,  That  the 
following  articles  be  proposed  to  the  Legislatures  of  thf 


THE  UNITED  STATES.  2' 

several  States,  as  amendments  to  the  Constitution  of  the 
United  States,  all  or  any  of  which  articles,  when  ratified 
by  three-fourths  of  the  said  Legislatures,  to  be  valid  to 
all  intents  and  purposes,  as  part  of  the  said  constitution ; 
viz  : 

Articles  in  addition  to,  and  amendment  of,  the  Constitu- 
tion of  the  United  States  of  America,  proposed  by  Con- 
gress, and  ratified  by  the  Legislatures  of  the  several 
States,  pursuant  to  the  fifth  article  of  the  original  Con- 
stitution. 

ARTICLE  I. 

AFTER  the  first  enumeration  required  by  the  first  ai-  oi  repre- 
ticle  of  the  Constitution,  there  shall  be  one  representa-    <>ntatl0n- 
tive  for  every   thirty   thousand,   until  the  number  shall 
amount  to  one  hundred,  after  which  the  proportion  shall 
be  so  regulated  by  Congress,  that  there  shall  be  not  less   [Notadop- 
than   one   hundred   representatives,    nor    less  than    one  constitu- 
representative   for  every   forty  thousand    persons,  until   tionai 
the  number  of  representatives  shall  amount  to  two  nun-   n«i»ber  of 
dred  ;  after  which  the  proportion  shall  be  so  regulated  by 
Congress,  that  there  shall  be  not  less  than  two  hundred 
representatives,  nor  more  than  one  representative  for  eve- 
ry fifty  thousand  persons. 

ARTICLE  II. 

t  0f  the 
No  law  varying  the  compensation  for  the  services  o1  compensa- 

the  Senators  and  Representatives,  shall  take  effect,  miti*  tl°"  °J 

,  -.  r  .  iiii  •  members 

an  election  of  representatives  shall  have  intervened.  0f  Con. 


rress. 

ARTICLE  III.  [Not  a- 

doptecl.j 
Of  reli- 
gious os- 


Congress  shall  make  no  law  respecting  an  establish- 
ment of  religion,  or  prohibiting  the  free  exercise  thereof;  tabli 


ments, 
freedom 


or  abridging  the  freedom  of  speech,  or  of  the  press  ;  or 

the  right  of  the  people  peaceably  to  assemble,  and  to  pe-  ^ '\"™' 

tition  the  government  for  a  redress  of  grievances.  press,  &c. 

[This  and 

ARTir'T  V    IV  thcreniain- 

AlillUL.lL.    IV.  ing  articles 

adopted.] 

A  well  regulated  militia  being  necessary  to  the  security  Of  the  Mi 
of  a  free  state,  the  right  of  the  people  to  keep  and  bear  |",l1e'ar'sl" 
arms  shall  not  be  infringed.  arm* 


2S 


CONSTITUTION  OF 


Quartering 

soldiers. 


JSo  m>'.  c;t 
sonab'le 
searches  or 
seizures  to 
be  made. 
How  war- 
rants to 


Criminal 
prosecu- 
tions, tiovv 
f  o  be  con- 
ducted, &.C 

Private 
property 
not  to  be 
taken  for 
public 
use,  with- 
out'just 
compensa- 
tion. 


ARTICLE  V. 

No  soldier  shall  in  time  of  peace  be  quartered  in  any 
house,  without  the  consent  of  the  owner  ;  nor  in  time  of 
war,  but  in  a  manner  to  be  prescribed  by  law. 

ARTICLE  VL 

The  right  of  the  people  to  be  secure  in  their  persons, 
houses,  papers  and  effects,  against  unreasonable  searches 
and  seizures,  shall  not  be  violated,  and  no  warrants  shall 
issue,  but  upon  probable  cause,  supported  by  oath  or  affir- 
mation, and  particularly  describing  the  place  to  be  search- 
ed, and  the  persons  or  things  to  be  seized. 

ARTICLE  VII. 

No  person  shall  be  held  to  answer  for  a  capital  or  other" 
wise  infamous  crime,  unless  on  a  presentment  or  indict- 
ment of  a  grand  jury,  except  in  cases  arising  in  the  land 
or  naval  forces,  or  in  the  militia  when  in  actual  service  in 
time  of  war  or  public  clanger  ;  nor  shall  any  person  be 
subject  for  the  same  offeuce  to  be  twice  put  in  jeopardy 
of  life  or  limb  ;  nor  shall  be  compelled,  in  any  criminal 
case,  to  be  witness  against  himself,  nor  be  deprived  of 
life,  liberty,  or  property,  without  due  process  of  law;  nor 
shall  private  property  be  taken  for  public  use  without 
just  compensatioi 

ARTICLE  VIII. 


■witnes 
ses — 
conhse] 


Trial  by  In  all  criminal  prosecutions  the  accused  shall  enjoy  the 

minViVo-  r*Snt  to  a  sPee0"y  a,,d  public  trial,  by  an  impartial  jury  of 
secution  the  state  and  district  wherein  the  crime  shall  have  been 
secured,--  committed,  which  district  shall  have  been  previously  as- 
certamed  by  law,  and  to  be  informed  of  the  nature  and 
cause  of  the  accusation  ;  to  be  confronted  with  the  wit- 
nesses against  him  ;  to  have  compulsory  process  for  ob- 
taining witnesses  in  his  favor,  and  to  have  the  assistance 
of  counsel  for  his  defence. 

ARTICLE  IX. 

Also  in  ci-        In  suits  at  common  law,  where  the  value  in  controver- 
vii  case,  at  sv  9hall  exceed  twenty  dollars,  the  right  of  trial  by  jury 
shall  be  preserved,  and  no  fact,  tried  by  a  jury,  shall  be 
otherwise  re-examined  in  any  court  of  the  United  States, 
than  according  to  the  rules  of  the  common  law. 


i.'Cinunon 
law 


THE  UNITED  STATES.  29 

ARTICLE  X. 

Excessive  bail  shall  not  be  required,  nor  excessive  fines  oft|aii, 

i  11  i*i  •    J'        j  punish- 

lmpos^d,  nor  cruel  and  unusual  punishments  inflicted.       ments  &c. 

ARTICLE  XL 

The  enumeration  in  the  Constitution,  of  certain  rights,  ?i.ght?  *'e* 

.         taineri  by 

shall  not  be  construed  to  deny  or  disparage  others  retain-  the  Peo- 
ed  by  the  people.  p'e- 

ARTICLE  XII. 

Powers 

The  powers  not  delegated  to  the  United  States  by  the  ™steh™ed 
Constitution,  nor  prohibited  by  it  to  the  states,  are  re-  states  or 
•  ed  to  the  states  respectively,  or  to  the  people.  the  people, 

ARTICLE  XIII. 

THIRD  CONGRESS  OF  THE  UNITED  STATES, 

.'It  the  second  session,  begun  and  held  at  the  city  of  Phila- 
delphia, in  the  state  of  Pennsylvania,  on  Monday  the 
ond  of  December,  1793. 

RESOLVED  by  the  Senate  and  House  of  Represen- 
tatives of  the  United  States  of  America,  in  Congress 
assembled,  tivo  thirds  of  both  Houses  concurring,  That  the 
following  article  be  proposed  to  the  legislatures  of  the 
severall  states,  as  an  amendment  to  the  Constitution  of 
the  United  States  ;  which  when.ratified  by  three-fourths  of 
the  said  legislatures,  shall  be  valid  as  part  of  the  saidCon- 
stiution,  viz  : 

The  judicial  power  of  the  United  States  shall  not  be  oftiiesr.. 
construed  to  extend  to  any  suit  in  law  or  equity,  com-  ability  of 
menced  or  prosecuted  against  one  of  the  United  Sates  by 
citizens  of  another  state,  or  by  citizens  or  subjects  of  any 
foreign  state.   ' 

FREDERICK  AUGUSTUS  MUHLENBERG. 

Speaker  of  the  House  of  Representatives. 

JOHN  ADAMS, 
Vice  President  of  the  United  States,  and 
President  of  the  Senate. 
\'rest, 

JOHN  BECKLEY, 

Clerk  of  the  House  of  Representatives. 
SAW.  A.  OTIS, 

^prrt-tary  of  the  Senate, 


states . 


90  CONSTITUTION  OF 

ARTICLE  XIV. 
AMENDMENT 

TO    THE 

CONSTITUTION  OF  THE  UNITED  STATES. 

As  ratified  by  the  constitutional  number  of  the  legislatures 
of  the  several  slates,  in  the  year  one  thousand  eight 
hundred  and  four. 

EIGHTH  CONGRESS  OF  THE  UNITED  STATES, 

.It  the  first  session,  begun  and  held  at  the  city  of  Washing- 
ton,  in  the  territory  of  Columbia,  on  Monday,  the  seven- 
teenth of  October,  one  thousand  eight  hundred  and  three. 

RESOLVED  by  the  Senate  and  House  of  Representa- 
tives of  the  United  States  of  America,  in  Congress  assem- 
bled, two  thirds  of  both  Houses  concurring,  That  in  lieu 
of  the  third  paragraph  of  the  first  section  of  the  second 
article  of  the  constitution  of  the  United  States,  the  fol- 
lowing be  proposed  as  an  amendment  to  the  constitution 
of  the  United  States,  which  when  ratified  by  three 
fourths  of  the  legislatures  of  the  several  states,  shall  be 
valid  to  all  intents  and  purposes,  as  part  of  the  said  con- 
stitution, to  wit : 

Manner  of  The  electors  shall  meet  in  their  respective  states,  and 
electing  vote  by  ballot  for  President  and  Vice  President,  one  of 
TnTvicc-  wnom»  at  least,  shall  not  be  an  inhabitant  of  the  same  state 
President,  with  themselves  ;  they  shall  name  in  their  ballots  the  per- 
son voted  for  as  President,  and  in  distinct  ballots  the  per- 
son voted  for  as  Vice-President,  and  they  shall  make  dis- 
tinct lists  of  all  persons  voted  for  as  President,  and  of  all 
persons  voted  for  as  Vice-President,  and  of  the  number 
of  votes  for  each,  which  lists  they  shall  sign  and  certify, 
and  transmit  sealed  to  the  seat  of  the  government  of  the 
United  States,  directed  to  the  President  of  the  Senate ;  the 
President  of  the  Senate  shall,  in  the  presence  of  the  Senate 
and  House  of  Representatives,  open  all  the  certificates 
and  the  votes  shall  then  be  counted  ;  The  person  having 
the  greatest  number  of  votes  for  President,  shall  be  the 
President,  if  such  number  be  a  majority  of  the  whole  num- 
ber of  electors  appointed;  and  if  no  person  have  such  ma- 
jority, then  from  the  persons  having  the  highest  number, 
not  exceeding  three  on  the  list  of  those  voted  for  as  Pre- 


THE  UNITED  STATES.  3) 

sident,  the  House  of  Represensatives  shall  choose  imme- 
diately, by  ballot,  the  President.  But  in  choosing  the 
President,  the  votes  shall  be  taken  by  states,  the  represen- 
tation fi  om  each  state  having  one  vote  ;  a  quorum  for  this 
purpose  shall  consist  of  a  member  or  members  from  two- 
thirds  of  the  states,  and  a  majority  of  all  the  states  shall 
be  necessary  to  a  choice.  And  if  the  House  of  Repre- 
sentatives shall  not  choose  a  President  whenever  the  right 
of  choice  shall  devolve  upon  them,  before  the  fourth  day 
of  March  next  following,  then  the  Vice-President  shall 
act  as  President,  as  in  the  case  of  the  death  or  other  con- 
stitutional disability  of  the  President. 

The  person  having  the  greatest  number  of  votes  as 
Vice-President,  shall  be  the  Vice  President,  if  such  num- 
ber be  a  majority  of  the  whole  number  of  electors  appoint- 
ed, and  if  no  person  have  a  majority,  then  from  the  two 
highest  numbers  on  the  list,  the  Senate  shall  choose  the 
Vice-President;  a  quorum  for  the  purpose  shall  consist 
of  two-thirds  of  the  whole  number  of  Senators,  and  a 
majority  of  the  whole  number  shall  be  necessary  to  a 
choice. 

But  no  person  constitutionally  ineligible  to  the  office  of 
President  shall  be  eligible  to  that  of  Vice-President  of  the 
United  States.* 

Attest, 

JOHN  BECKLEY, 

Clerk  to  the  House  of  Representa- 
tives of  the  U.  States* 

SAM  :  A.  OTIS, 

Secretary  to  the  Senate  of  the  United  States. 

For  Laws  of  Congress  relative  to  the  election  of  President  and 
Vi.  i  -President,  see  Acts  of  1st  Session  of  2d  Congress,  vol.  2,  pa.  22- 
and  Acts  of  1st  Session  of  8th  Congress,  vol.  7,  pa.  142. 


33       DECLARATION  OF  INDEPENDENCE. 

In  CONGRESS,  July  4,  1776. 

WHEN  in  the  course  of  human  events,  it  becomes 
necessary  for  one  people  to  dissolve  the  political  bands 
which  have  connected  them  with  another,  and  to  assume, 
among  the  powers  of  the  earth,  the  seperate  and  equal 
station  to  which  the  laws  of  nature  and  of  nature's  God 
entitle  them,  a  decent  respect  to  the  opinions  of  mankind 
requires  that  they  should  declare  the  causes  which  impel 
them  to  the  separation. 

We  hold  these  truths  to  be  self  evident;  that  all  men 
are  created  equal;  that  they  are  endowed,  by  their  Cre- 
ator, with  certain  unalienable  rights;  that  among  these 
are  life,  liberty,  and  the  pursuit  of  happiness. — That  to 
secure  these  rights,  governments  are  instituted  among 
men,  deriving  their  just  powers  from  the  consent  of  the 
governed ;  that  whenever  any  form  of  government  be- 
comes destructive  of  these  ends,  it  is  the  right  of  the  peo- 
ple to  alter  or  to  abolish  it,  and  to  institute  new  govern- 
ment, laying  its  foundation  on  such  principles,  and  organ- 
ising its  powers  in  such  form,  as  to  them  shall  seem 
most  likely  to  effect  their  safety  and  happiness.  Pru- 
dence, indeed,  will  dictate,  that  governments  long  es- 
tablished, should  not  be  changed  for  light  and  transient 
causes;  and  accordingly  all  experience  hath  shewn,  that 
mankind  are  more  disposed  to  suffer,  while  evils  are 
sufferable,  than  to  right  themselves  by  abolishing  the 
forms  to  which  they  are  accustomed.  But  when  a  long 
train  of  abuses  and  usurpations,  pursuing  invariably  the 
same  object,  evinces  a  design  to  reduce  them  under  ab- 
solute despotism,  it  is  their  right,  it  is  their  duty,  to  throw 
off  such  government,  and  to  provide  new  guards  for  their 
future  security.  Such  has  been  the  patient  sufferance  of 
these  colonies ;  and  such  is  now  the  necessity  which  con- 
strains them  to  alter  their  former  systems  of  government. 
The  history  of  the  present  King  of  Great-Britain,  is  a 
history  of  repeated  injuries  and  usurpations,  all  having  in 
direct  object  the  establishment  of  an  absolute  tyranny 
over  these  states.  To  prove  this,  let  facts  be  submitted  to 
a  candid  world. 

He  has  refused  his  assent  to  laws  the  most  wholesome 
and  necessary  for  the  public  good. 

He  has  forbidden  his  governors  to  pass  laws  of  immev 


DECLARATION  OF  INDEPENDENCE.  38 

diate  and  pressing  importance,  unless  suspended  in  then- 
operation  till  his  assent  should  be  obtained  ;  and  when  so 
suspended,  he  has  utterly  neglected  to  attend  to  them. 

He  has  refused  to  pass  other  laws  for  the  accommoda- 
tion of  large  districts  of  people,  unless  those  people 
would  relinquish  the  right  of  representation  in  the  legis- 
lature ;  a  right  inestimable  to  them,  and  formidable  to 
tyrants  only.  He  has  called  together  legislative  bodies 
at  places  unusual,  uncomfortable,  and  distant  from  the 
depository  of  their  public  records,  for  the  sole  purpose  of 
fatiguiug  them  into  compliance  with  his  measures. 

He  has  dissolved  representative  houses  repeatedly,  for 
opposing  with  manly  firmness,  his  invasions  on  the  rights 
of  the  people. 

He  has  refused  for  a  long  time,  after  such  dissolutions, 
to  cause  others  to  be  elected  ;  whereby  the  legislative 
powers,  incapable  of  annihilation,  have  returned  to  the 
people  at  large  for  their  exercise  ;  the  state  remaining,  in 
the  mean  time,  exposed  to  all  the  dangers  of  invasion 
from  without,  and  convulsions  within. 

He  has  endeavored  to  prevent  the  population  of  these 
states ;  for  that  purpose  obstructing  the  laws  for  naturali- 
zation of  foreigners  ;  refusing  to  pass  others  to  encour- 
age their  migrations  hither,  and  raising  the  conditions 
of  new  appropriations  of  lands. 

He  has  obstructed  the  administration  of  justice,  by  re- 
fusing his  assent  to  laws  for  establishing  judiciary  pow- 
ers. 

He  has  made  judges  dependent  on  his  will  alone,  for 
the  tenure  of  their  offices,  and  the  amount  and  payment 
of  their  salaries. 

He  has  erected  a  multitude  of  new  offices,  and  sent  hi- 
ther swarms  of  officers,  to  harrass  our  people  and  eat  out 
their  substance. 

He  has  kept  among  us,  in  times  of  peace,  standing  ar- 
mies, without  the  consent  of  our  legislatures. 

He  has  affected  to  render  the  military  independent  oi. 
and  superior  to  the  civil  power. 

E 


/ 


34  DECLARATION  OF  INDEPENDENCE. 

He  has  combined  with  others  to  subject  us  to  a  juris- 
diction foreign  to  our  constitution,  and  unacknowledged 
by  our  laws  ;  giving  his  assent  to  their  acts  of  pretended 
legislation  : 

For  quartering  large  bodies  of  armed  troops  among 

us  : 

For  protecting  them,  by  a  mock  trial,  from  punish- 
ment for  any  murders  which  they  should  commit  on  the 
inhabitants  of  these  states  : 

For  cutting  off  our  trade  with  all  parts  of  the  world  : 

For  imposing  taxes  on  us  without  our  consent : 

For  depriving  us,  in  many  cases,  of  the  benefits  of  the 
trial  by  jury  : 

For  transporting  us  beyond  seas  to  be  tried  for  pre- 
tended offences : 

For  abolishing  the  free  system  of  English  laws  in  a 
neighboring  province,  establishing  therein  an  arbitrary 
government,  and  enlarging  its  boundaries,  so  as  to  ren- 
der it  at  once  an  example  and  fit  instrument  for  introduc- 
ing the  same  absolute  rule  into  these  colonies  : 

For  taking  away  our  charters,  abolishing  our  most  va- 
luable laws,  and  altering  fundamentally  the  forms  of  our 
governments  : 

For  suspending  our  own  legislatures,  and  declaring 
themselves  invested  with  power  to  legislate  for  us  in  all 
rases  whatsoever. 

He  has  abdicated  government  here,  by  declaring  us 
out  of  his  protection,  and  waging  war  against  us. 

He  has  plundered  our  seas,  ravaged  our  coasts,  burnt 
our  towns,  and  destroyed  the  lives  of  our  people. 

He  is,  at  this  time,  transporting  large  armies  of  foreign 
mercenaries  to  complete  the  works  ol  death,  desolation, 
and  tyranny  already  begun  with  circumstances  of  cruel- 
ty and  perfidy,  scarcely  paralleled  in  the  most  barbarous 
ages,  and  totally  unworthy  the  head  of  a  civilized  na- 
tion. 


DECLARATION  OF  INDEPENDENCE.        35 

He  lias  constrained  our  fellow  citizens,  taken  captive 
on  the  high  seas,  to  bear  arms  against  heir  country,  to 
become  the  executioners  of  their  friends  and  brethren,  or 
to  fall  themselves  by  their  hands. 

He  has  excited  domestic  insurrection  amongst  us,  and 
has  endeavored  tobringonthe  inhabitantsof  ourfrontiers, 
the  merciless  Indian  savages,  whose  known  rule  of  war- 
fare is  an  undistinguished  destruction  of  all  ages;  sexes 
and  conditions. 

In  every  stage  of  these  oppressions,  we  have  petitioned 
for  redress  in  the  most  humble  terms :  Our  repeated  pe- 
titions have  been  answered  only  by  repeated  injury.  A 
prince,  whose  character  is  thus  marked  by  every  act  which 
may  define  a  tyrant,  is  unfit  to  be  the  ruler  of  a  free  peo- 
ple. 

Nor  have  we  been  wanting  in  attentions  to  our  British 
brethren.  We  have  warned  them,  from  time  to  time, 
of  attempts  by  their  legislature  to  extend  an  unwarranta- 
ble jurisdiction  over  us.  We  have  reminded  them  of  the 
circumstances  of  our  emigration  and  settlement  here. — 
We  have  appealed  to  their  native  justice  and  magnanimi- 
ty, and  we  have  conjured  them  by  the  ties  of  our  common 
kindred,  to  disavow  these  usurpations,  which  would  ine- 
vitably interrupt  our  connexions  and  correspondence. 
They  too  have  been  deaf  to  the  voice  of  justice  and  of 
consanguinity.  We  must,  therefore,  acquiesce  in  the  ne- 
cessity which  denounces  our  separation,  and  hold  them, 
as  we  hold  the  rest  of  mankind,  enemies  in  war,  in  peace 
friends. 

We,  therefore,  the  representatives  of  the  United  States 
of  America,  in  general  Congress  assembled,  appealing  to 
the  Supreme  Judge  of  the  world  for  the  rectitude  of  our 
intentions,  do,  in  the  name,  and  by  authority  of  the 
good  people  of  these  colonies,  solemnly  publish  and  de- 
clare, That  these  United  Colonies  arc,  and  of  right 
ought  to  be,  Free  and  Independent  States;  that  they  arc 
absolved  from  all  allegiance  to  the  British  Crown,  am! 
that  all  political  connexion  between  them  and  the  state 
of  Great-Britain,  is,  and  ought  to  be,  totally  dissolved  ; 
and  that  as  Free  and  Independent  States,  they  have  full 
power  to  levy  war,  conclude  peace,  contract  alliances, 
establish  commerce,  and  to  do  all  other  acts  and  things 
which  Independent  States  may  of  right  do.      And  for  the 


&> 


DECLARATION  OF  INDEPENDENCE. 


support  of  this  declaration,  with  a  firm  reliance  on  the 
protection  of  Divine  Providence,  we  mutually  pledge  to 
each  other,  our  lives,  our  fortunes,  and  our  sacred  ho- 
nor. 

Signed  by  order  and  in  behalf  of  the  Congress, 

JOHN  HANCOCK,  President. 
Attested, 

CHARLES  THOMSON,  Secretary. 


New -Hampshire. 
Josiah  Bartlett, 
William  Whipple, 
Matthew  Thornton. 

Massachusetts-Bay. 
Samuel  Adams, 
John  Adams, 
Robert  Treat  Paine, 
Elbridge  Gerry. 

Rhode-Island,  fyc. 
Stephen  Hopkins, 
William  Ellery. 

Connecticut. 
Roger  Sherman. 
Samuel  Huntington, 
William  Williams, 
Oliver  Wolcott. 

New-  York. 
William  Floyd, 
Philip  Livingston, 
Francis  Lewis, 
Lewis  Morris. 

New-Jersey. 
Richard  Stockton, 
John  Witherspoon, 
Francis  Hopkinson. 
John  Hart, 
Abraham  Clark. 

Pennsylvania. 
Robert  Morris, 
Benjamin  Rush, 
Benjamin  Franklin, 
John  Morton, 
G?or;ie  Clvmer. 


James  Smith, 
George  Taylor, 
James  Wilson, 
George  Ross. 

Delaware. 
Caesar  Rodney, 
Thomas  M'Kean; 
George  Read. 

Maryland. 
Samuel  Chase, 
William  Paca, 
Thomas  Stone,  [ton. 

Charles  Carroll,  of  Carroll- 

Virginia. 
George  Wythe, 
Richard  Henry  Lee, 
Thomas  Jefferson, 
Benjamin  Harrison, 
Thomas  Nelson,  jun. 
Francis  Lightfoot  Lee, 
Carter  Braxton. 

North-  Carolina. 
William  Hooper, 
Joseph  Hewes, 
John  Perm. 

South-Carolina. 
Edward  Rutledge, 
Thomas  Heyward,  Jun. 
Thomas  Lynch,  Jun. 
Arthur  Middleton. 

Georgia. 
Button  Gwinnett, 
Lyman  Hall, 
George  Walton. 


ARTICLES  OF  CONFEDERATION.  37 

In  CONGRESS,  July  9,  1778. 


OF 

CONFEDERATION  AND  PERPETUAL  UNION 

BETWEEN 

The  States  of  Mew- Hampshire,  Massachusetts- Bay,  Rhode 
Island  and  Providence  Plantations,  Connecticut,  Mew- 
York,  Mew-Jersey,  Pennsylvania,  Delaware,  Maryland, 
Virginia,  Morth-  Carolina,  South  Carolina  and  Georgia. 

ARTICLE  I. 

THE  stile  of  this  confederacy  shall  be,  "  The  United 
States  of  America." 

ARTICLE  II. 

Each  state  retains  its  sovereignty,  freedom,  and  inde- 
pendence, and  every  powerjurisdiction,  and  right,  which 
is  not  by  this  confederation  expressly  delegated  to  the 
United  States  in  Congress  assembled. 

ARTICLE  III. 

The  said  states  hereby  severally  enter  into  a  firm  league 
of  friendship  with  each  other,  for  their  common  defence, 
the  security  of  their  liberties,  and  their  mutual  and  gene- 
ral welfare^  binding  themselves  to  assist  each  other  against 
all  force  offered  to,  or  attacks  made  upon  them,  or  any  of 
them,  on  account  of  religion,  sovereignty,  trade,  or  any 
other  pretence  whatever. 


ARTICLE  IV. 


■JW 


Sec.  1.  The  better  to  secure  and  perpetuate  mutual  friend- 
ship and  intercourse  among  the  people  of  the  different 
states  in  this  union,  the  free  inhabitants  of  each  of  these 
states,  paupers,  vagabonds  and  fugitives  from  justice  ex- 
cepted, shall  be  entitled  to  all  privileges  and  immuni- 
ties of  free  citizens  in  the  several  states ;  and  the  people 
of  each  state  shall  have  free  ingress  and  regress  to  and 
from  any  other  state,  and  shall  enjoy  therein  all  the  pri- 
vileges of  trade  and  commerce,  subject  to  the  same  du- 


3S  ARTICLES  OF  CONFEDERATION. 

ties,  impositions,  and  restrictions,  as  the  inhabitants  there- 
of respectively;  provided,  that  such  restrictions  shall  not 
extend  so  far  as  to  prevent  the  removal  of  property  im- 
ported into  any  state  to  any  other  state  of  which  the  own- 
er is  an  inhabitant ;  provided  also,  that  no  impositions, 
duties,  or  restrictions,  shall  be  laid  by  any  state  on  the 
property  of  the  United  States,  or  either  of  them. 

Sec.  2.  If  any  person  guilty  of  or  charged  with  treason, 
felonv,  or  other  high  misdemeanor  in  any  state,  shall  flee 
from  justice,  and  be  found  in  any  of  the  United  States,  he 
shall,  upon  demand  of  the  governor  or  executive  power 
of  the  state  from  which  he  fled,  be  delivered  up  and  re- 
moved to  the  state  having  jurisdiction  of  his  offence. 

Sec.  3.  Full  faith  and  credit  shall  be  given  in  each  ot 
these  states,  to  the  records,  acts,  and  judicial  proceedings 
of  the  courts  and  magistrates  of  every  other  state. 

ARTICLE  V. 

Sec.  1.  For  the  more  convenient  management  of  the 
general  interests  of  the  United  States,  delegates  shall  be 
annually  appointed  in  such  manner  as  the  Legislature  ot* 
each  state  shall  direct,  to  meet  in  congress  on  the  first 
Monday  in  November  in  every  year,  with  a  power  reserv- 
ed to  each  stale  to  recall  its  delegates,  or  any  of  them,  at 
any  time  within  the  year  and  to  send  others  in  their  stead, 
for  the  remainder  of  the  year. 

Sec.  %  No  state  shall  be  represented  in  Congress  by 
less  than  two,  nor  more  than  seven  members ;  and  no  per- 
son shall  be  capable  of  being  a  delegate  for  more  than 
three  years,  in  any  term  of  six  years  ;  nor  shall  any  per- 
son, being  a  delegate,  be  capable  of  holding  any  office 
under  the  United  States,  for  which  he,  or  any  other  for 
his  benefit,  receives  any  salary,  fees,  or  emolument,  of 
any  kind. 

Sec.  3.  Each  state  shall  maintain  its  own  delegates  in 
a  meeting  of  the  states,  and  while  they  act  as  members  of 
the  committee  of  the  states. 

Sec.  4.  In  determining  questious  in  the  United  States 
in  Congress  assembled,  each  state  shall  have  one  vote. 

Sec.  5.  Freedom  of  speech  and  debate  in  Congress 
shall  not  be  impeached  or  questioned  in  any  court  or  place 


ARTICLES  OF  CONFEDERATION.  39 

out  of  Congress,  and  the  members  of  Congress  shall  be 
protected  in  their  persons  from  arrests  and  imprisonments 
during  the  time  of  their  going  to  and  from,  and  attendance 
on  Congress,  except  for  treason,  felony,  or  breach  of  the 
peace. 

ARTICLE  VI. 

Sec.  1.  No  state,  without  the  consent  of  the  United 
States  in  Congress  assembled,  shall  send  any  embassy  to, 
or  receive  any  embassy  from,  or  enter  into  any  confer- 
ence, agreement,  alliance,  or  treaty,  with  any  king,  prince, 
or  State ;  nor  shall  any  person  holding  any  office  of  pro- 
fit or  trust  under  the  United  States,  or  any  of  them,  ac- 
cept of  any  present,  emolument,  office,  or  title,  of  any 
kind  whatever,  from  any  king,  prince,  or  foreign  state: 
nor  shall  the  United  States  in  Congress  assembled,  or 
any  of  them,  grant  any  title  of  nobility. 

Sec.  2.  No  two  or  more  states  shall  enter  into  any  trea- 
ty, confederation,  or  alliance  whatever  between  them, 
without  the  consent  of  the  United  States  in  Congress  as- 
sembled, specifying  accurately  the  purposes  for  which  the 
same  is  to  be  entered  into,  and  how  long  it  shall  continue. 

Sec.  3.  No  state  shall  lay  any  imposts  or  duties  which 
ma}'  interfere  with  any  stipulations  in  treaties  entered  in- 
to by  the  United  States  in  Congress  assembled,  with  any 
king,  prince,  or  state,  in  pursuance  of  any  treaties  already 
proposed  by  Congress  to  the  courts  of  France  and  Spain. 

Sec.  4.  No  vessels  of  war  shall  be  kept  upin  time  of  peace 
by  any  state,  except  such  number  only  as  shall  be  deemed 
necessary  by  the  United  States  in  Congress  assembled  for 
the  defence  of  such  state,  or  its  trade ;  nor  shall  any  body 
of  forces  be  kept  up  by  any  slate,  in  time  of  peace,  ex- 
cept such  number  only  as  in  the  judgment  of  the  United 
States  in  Congress  assembled  shall  be  deemed  requisite 
to  garrison  the  forts  necessary  for  the  defence  of  such 
state  ;  but  every  state  shall  always  keep  up  a  well  regula- 
ted and  disciplined  militia,  sufficiently  armed  and  accou- 
tred, and  shall  provide  and  constantly  have  ready  for  use, 
in  public  stores,  a  due  number  of  field- pieces  and  tents, 
and  a  proper  quantity  of  arms,  ammunition,  and  camp 
equipage. 

Sec.  5.  No  stale  shall  engage  in  any  war  withouttheeon- 
ent  of  the  United  States  in  Congress  assembled,  unless 


40  ARTICLES  OF  CONFEDERATION. 

such  state  be  actually  invaded  bv  enemies,  or  shall  have 
received  certain  advice  of  a  resolution  being  formed  by 
some  nation  of  Indians  to  invade  such  state,  and  the  dan- 
ger is  so  imminent  as  not  to  admit  of  a  delay  till  the 
United  States  in  Congress  assembled  can  be  consulted: 
nor  shall  any  state  grant  commissions  to  any  ships  or  ves- 
sels of  war,  nor  letters  of  marque  or  reprisal,  except  it  be 
after  a  declaration  of  war  by  the  United  States  in  Con- 
gress assembled,  and  then  only  against  the  kingdom  or 
state  and  the  subjects  thereof  against  which  war  has  been 
so  declared,  and  under  such  regulations  as  shall  be  es- 
tablished by  the  United  States  in  Congress  assembled, 
unless  such  state  be  infested  by  pirates,  in  which  case 
vessels  of  war  may  be  fitted  out  for  that  occasion,  and  kept 
so  long  as  the  danger  shall  continue,  or  until  the  United 
States  in  Congress  assembled  shall  determine  other- 
wise. 

ARTICLE  VII. 

When  land  forces  are  raised  by  any  state  for  the  com- 
mon defence,  all  officers  of  or  under  the  rank  of  colonel 
shall  be  appointed  by  the  legislature  of  each  state  respec- 
tively by  whom  such  forces  shall  be  raised,  or  in  such 
manner  as  such  state  shall  direct,  and  all  vacancies  shall 
be  filled  up  by  the  state  which  first  made  the  appoint- 
ment, 

ARTICLE  VIII. 

All  charges  of  war,  and  all  other  expenses  that  shall  be 
incurred  for  the  common  defence  or  general  welfare,  and 
allowed  by  the  United  States  in  Congress  assembled,  shall 
be  defrayed  out  of  a  common  treasury,  which  shall  be 
supplied  by  the  several  states,  in  proportion  to  the  value 
of  all  land  within  each  state,  granted  to  or  surveyed  for 
any  person,  as  such  land  and  the  buildings  and  improve- 
ments thereon  shall  be  estimated,  according  to  such  mode 
as  the  United  States  in  Congress  assembled  shall  from 
time  to  time  direct  and  appoint.  The  taxes  for  paying 
that  proportion  shall  be  laid  and  levied  by  the  authority 
and  direction  of  the  legislatures  of  the  several  states  with- 
in the  time  agreed  upon  by  the  United  States  in  Con- 
gress assembled. 


\RTICLES  OF  CONFEDERATION  41 

ARTICLE  IX. 

Sec.  I.  The  United  States  in  Congress  assembled  shall 
have  the  sole  and  exclusive  right  and  power  of  determin- 
ing on  peace  and  war,  except  in  the  cases  mentioned  in  the 
sixth  article;  of  sending  and  receiving  ambassadors;  en- 
tering into  treaties  and  alliances,  provided  that  no  treaty 
of  commerce  shall  be  made,  whereby  the  legislative  pow- 
er of  the  respective  states  shall  be  restrained  from  impos- 
ing such  imposts  and  duties  on  foreigners,  as  their  own 
people  are  subjected  to,  or  from  prohibiting  the  exporta- 
tion or  importation  of  any  species  of  goods  or  commo- 
dities whatsoever;  of  establishing  rules  for  deciding  in 
all  cases,  what  captures  on  land  or  water  shall  be  legal, 
and  in  what  manner  prizes  taken  by  land  or  naval  forces 
in  the  service  of  the  United  States  shall  be  divided  or  ap- 
propriated ;  of  granting  letters  of  marquje  and  reprisal  in 
times  of  peace;  appointing  courts  for  the  trial  of  piracies 
and  felonies  committed  on  the  high  seas ;  and  establish- 
ing courts  for  receiving  and  determining  finally  appeals  in 
all  cases  of  captures:  provided,  that  no  member  of  Con- 
gress shall  be  appointed  a  judge  of  any  of  the  said  courts. 

Sec.  2.  The  United  States  in  Congress  assembled  shall 
also  be  the  last  resort  on  appeal  in  all  disputes  and  dif- 
ferences now  subsisting,  or  that  hereafter  may  arise  be- 
tween two  or  more  states  concerning  boundary,  jurisdic- 
tion, or  any  other  cause  whatever  ;  which  authority  shall 
always  be  exercised  in  the  manner  following:  Whenever 
the  legislative  or  executive  authority  or  lawful  agent  of  any 
state  in  controversy  with  another,  shall  present  a  petition, 
to  Congress,  stating  the  matter  in  question,  and  praying 
for  a  heating,  notice  thereof  shall  be  given  by  order  of 
Congress  to  the  legislative  or  executive  authority  of  the 
other  state  in  controversy,  and  a  day  assigned  for  the  ap- 
pearance of  the  parties  by  their  lawful  agents,  who  shall 
then  be  directed  to  appoint  by  joint  consent  commission- 
ers or  judges  to  constitute  a  court  for  hearing  and  deter- 
mining the  matter  in  question;  but  if  they  cannot  agree, 
Congress  shall  name  three  persons  out  of  each  of  the  Unit- 
ed States,  and  from  the  list  of  such  persons  each  party 
shall  alternately  strikeout  one,  the  petitioners  beginning, 
until  the  number  shall  be  reduced  to  thirteen;  and  from 
that  number  not  less  than  seven  nor  more  than  nine  names 
as  Congress  shall  direct,  shall  in  the  presence  of  Con- 
iro^  he  drawn  out  by  lot;  and  the  poisons  whose  names 

E 


42  ARTICLES  OF  CONFEDERATION. 

shall  be  so  drawn,  or  any  live  of  them,  shall  be  commis- 
sioners or  judges,  to  hear  and  finally  determine  the  con- 
troversy, so  always  as  that  a  major  part  of  the  judges, 
who  shall  hear  the  cause,  shall  agree  in  the  determination  : 
and  if  either  party  shall  neglect  to  attend  at  the  day  ap- 
pointed, without  shewing  reasons  which  Congress  shall 
judge  sufficient,  or  being  present,  shall  refuse  to  strike, 
the  Congress  shall  proceed  to  nominate  three  persons  out 
of  each  state,  and  the  secretary  of  Congress  shall  strike 
in  behalf  of  such  party  absent  or  refusing;  and  the  judg- 
ment and  sentence  of  the  court  to  be  appointed  in  the 
manner  before  prescribed,  shall  be  final  and  conclusive ; 
and  if  any  of  the  parties  shall  refuse  to  submit  to  the  au- 
thority of  such  court,  or  to  appear  or  defend  their  claim 
or  cause,  the  court  shall  nevertheless  proceed  to  pro- 
nounce sentence,  or  judgment,  which  shall  in  like  man- 
ner be  final  and  decisive;  the  judgment  or  sentence  and 
other  proceedings  being  in  either  case  transmitted  to  Con- 
gress, and  lodged  among  the  acts  of  Congress,  for  the 
security  of  the  parties  concerned :  Provided,  that  every 
commissioner,  before  he  sits  in  judgment,  shall  take  an 
oath,  to  be  administered  by  one  of  the  judges  of  the  su- 
preme or  superior  court  of  the  state  where  the  cause  shall 
be  tried,  "well  and  truly  to  hear  and  determine  the  mat- 
ter in  question,  according  to  the  best  of  his  judgment, 
without  favor,  affection,  or  hope  of  reward  :''  Provided 
also.  That  no  state  shall  be  deprived  of  territory  for  the 
benefit  of  the  United  States. 

tiec.  3.  All  controversies  concerning  the  private  right 
of  soil  claimed  under  different  grants  of  two  or  more 
states,  whose  jurisdictions  as  they  may  respect  such  lands, 
and  the  states  which  passed  such  grants  are  adjusted,  the 
said  grants  or  either  of  them  being  at  the  same  time 
claimed  to  have  originated  antecedent  to  such  settlement 
of  jurisdiction,  shall  on  the  petition  of  either  party  to  the 
Congress  of  the  United  States,  be  finally  determined,  as 
near  as  may  be,  in  the  same  manner  as  is  before  prescrib- 
ed for  deciding  disputes  respecting  territorial  jurisdiction 
between  different  states. 

Sec.  4.  The  United  States  in  Congress  assembled  shall 
also  have  the  sole  and  exclusive  right  and  power  of  regu- 
lating the  alloy  and  value  of  coin,  struck  by  their  own  au- 
thority, or  by  that  of  the  respective  states;  fixing  the  stan- 
dard of  weights  and  measv"-e«  throughout  the  United 


ARTICLES  OF  CONFEDERATION.  43 

States ;  regulating  the  trade  and  managing  all  affairs  with 
the  Indians,  not  members  of  any  of  the  states ;  provided, 
that  the  legislative  right  of  any  state  within  its  own  limits 
be  not  infringed  or  violated  ;  establishing  and  regulating 
post  offices  from  one  state  to  another,  throughout  all  the 
United  States,  and  exacting  such  postage  on  the  papers 
passing  through  the  same,  as  may  be  requisite  to  defray 
the  expenses  of  the  said  office  ;  appointing  all  officers  of 
the  land  forces  in  the  service  of  the  United  States,  except- 
ing regimental  officers  ;  appointing  all  the  officers  of  the 
naval  forces,  and  commissioning  all  officers  whatever  in 
the  service  of  the  United  States  ;  making  rules  for  the 
government  and  regulation  of  the  said  land  and  naval 
forces,  and  directing  their  operations. 

See,  5.  The  United  States  in  Congress  assembled  shall 
have  authority  to  appoint  a  committee,  to  sit  in  the  recess 
of  Congress,  to  be  denominated,  A  committee  of  the  States, 
and  to  consist  of  one  delegate  from  each  state  ;  and  to 
appoint  such  other  committees  and  civil  officers  as  may 
be  necessary  for  managing  the  general  affairs  of  the  United 
States  under  their  direction  ;  to  appoint  one  of  their  num- 
ber to  preside  ;  provided,  That  no  person  be  allowed  to 
serve  in  the  office  of  President  more  than  one  year  in  any 
term  of  three  years  ;  to  ascertain  the  necessary  sums  of 
money  to  be  raised  for  the  service  of  the  United  States, 
and  to  appropriate  and  apply  the  same  for  defraying  the 
public  expenses  ;  to  borrow  money  or  emit  bills  on  the 
credit  of  the  United  States,  transmitting  every  half  year 
to  the  respective  states  an  account  of  the  sums  of  money 

o  borrowed  or  emitted  j  to  build  and  equip  a  navy ;  to 
agree  upon  the  number  of  land  forces,  and  to  make  requi- 

iiions  from  each  state  for  its  quota,  in  proportion  to  the 
number  of  white  inhabitants  in  such  state,  which  requisi- 
tion shall  be  binding  ;  and  thereupon  the  legislature  of 
each  state  shall  appoint  the  regimental  officers,  raise  the 
men,  and  clothe,  arm  and  equip  them  in  a  soldier-like 
manner,  at  the  expense  of  the  United  States  ;  and  the  of- 
ficers and  men  so  clothed,  armed,  and  equipped,  shall 
march  to  the  place  appointed,  and  within  the  time  agreed 
on  by  the  United  States  in  Congress  assembled  :  but  if 
the  United  Stales  in  Congress  assembled  shall,  on  consi- 
deration of  circumstances,  judge  proper  that  any  state 
should  not  raise  men,  or  should  raise  a  smaller  number 
than  its  quota,  and  that  any  other  state  should  raise  agreat  - 
er  number  of  men  than  the  quota  thereof,  such  extra  num 


44  ARTICLES  OF  CONFEDERATION. 

bet  shall  be  raised,  officered,  clothed,  armed  and  equipped 
in  the  same  manner  as  the  quota  of  such  state,  unless  the 
legislature  of  such  state  shall  judge  that  such  extra  num- 
ber cannot  be  safely  spared  out  of  the  same,  in  which  case 
they  shall  raise,  officer,  clothe,  arm,  and  equip,  as  many 
of  such  extra  number  as  they  judge  can  be  safely  spared  ; 
and  the  officers  and  men  so  clothed,  armed,  and  equipped, 
shall  march  to  the  place  appointed,  and  within  the  time 
agreed  on  by  the  United  States  in  Congress  assembled. 

Sec.  6.  The  United  States  in  Congress  assembled  shall 
never  engage  in  a  war,  nor  grant  letters  of  marque  and  re- 
prisal in  time  of  peace,  nor  enter  into  any  treaties  or  al- 
liances, nor  coin  money,  nor  regulate  the  value  thereof, 
nor  ascertain  the  sums  and  expenses  necessary  for  the  de- 
fence and  welfare  of  the  United  States,  or  any  of  them, 
nor  emit  bills,  nor  borrow  money  on  the  credit  of  the 
United  States,  nor  appropriate  money,  nor  agree  upon 
the  number  of  vessels  of  war  to  be  built  or  purchased,  or 
the  number  of  land  or  sea  forces  to  be  raised,  nor  ap- 
pointacommanderin  chief  of  the  army  or  navy, unless  nine 
states  assent  to  the  same  :  Nor  shall  a  question  on  any 
other  point,  except  for  adjourning  from  day  to  day,  be 
determined,  unless  by  the  votes  of  a  majority  of  the  Unit- 
ed States  in  Congress  assembled. 

Sec.  7.  The  Congress  of  the  United  Stales  shall  have 
power  to  adjourn  to  any  time  within  the  year,  and  to  any 
place  within  the  United  States,  so  that  no  period  of  ad- 
journment be  for  a  longer  duration  than  the  space  of  six 
•  months,  and  shall  publish  the  journal  of  their  proceed- 
ings monthly,  except  such  parts  thereof  relating  to  trea- 
ties, alliances,  or  military  operations,  as  in  their  judg- 
ment require  secrecy  ;  and  the  yeas  and  nays  of  the  de- 
legates of  each  state,  on  any  question  shall  be  entered 
on  the  journal,  when  it  is  desired  by  any  delegate  ;  and 
the  delegates  of  a  state,  or  any  of  them,  at  his  or  their 
request  shall  be  furnished  with  a  transcript  of  the  said 
journal,  except  such  parts  as  are  above  excepted,  to  lay 
before  the  legislatures  of  the  several  states, 

ARTICLE  X. 

The  committee  of  the  states,  or  any  nine  of  them, 
s>hall  be  authorised  to  execute,  in  the  recess  of  Con- 
gress, t-noh  of  (-he  powers   of  Congress   ;;•=  the  United 


ARTICLES  OF  CONFEDERATION.  4£ 

States  in  Congress  assembled,  by  the  consent  of  nine 
states,  shall  from  time  to  time  think  expedient  to  vest 
them  with;  provided,  that  no  power  be  delegated  to  the 
said  committee,  for  the  exercise  of  which,  by  the  arti- 
cles of  confederation,  the  voice  of  nine  states,  in  the 
Congress  of  the  United  States  assembled,  is  requisite. 

ARTICLE  XI. 

Canada  acceding  to  this  confederation,  and  joining  in 
the  measures  of  the  United  States,  shall  be  admitted  into, 
and  entitled  to  all  the  advantages  of  this  union:  But  no 
other  colony  shall  be  admitted  into  the  same,  unless  such 
admission  be  agreed  to  by  nine  states. 

ARTICLE  XII. 

All  bills  of  credit  emitted,  monies  borrowed,  and  debte 
contracted  by,  or  under  the  authority  of  Congress,  be- 
fore the  assembling  of  the  United  States,  in  pursuance  of 
the  present  confederation,  shall  be  deemed  and  consider- 
ed as  a  charge  against  the  United  States,  for  payment 
and  satisfaction  whereof  the  said  United  States  and  the 
public  faith  are  hereby  solemnly  pledged. 

ARTICLE  XIII. 

Every  state  shall  abide  by  the  determinations  of  the 
United  States  in  Congress  assembled,  on  all  questions 
which  by  this  confederation  are  submitted  to  them.  And 
the  articles  of  this  confederation  shall  be  inviolably  ob- 
ser\ed  by  every  state,  and  the  union  shall  be  perpetual  ; 
nor  shall  any  alteration  at  any  time  hereafter  be  made  in 
any  of  them  ;  unless  such  alteration  be  agreed  to  in  a 
Congress  of  the  United  States,  and  be  afterwards  con- 
firmed by  the  legislatures  of  every  state. 

And  Whereas  it  hath  pleased  the  great  Governor  of  the 
World  to  incline  the  hearts  of  the  legislatures  we  re- 
spectively represent  in  Congress,  to  approve  of,  and  to 
authorise  us  to  ratify  the  said  articles  of  confedera- 
tion and  perpetual  union  :  Know  ye,  that  we  the  un- 
dersigned delegates,  by  virtue  of  the  power  and  au- 
thority to  us  given  for  that  purpose,  do  by  these  pre- 
sents, in  the  name  and  in  behalf  of  our  respective  con- 
stituents, fully  and  entirely  ratify  and  confirm  each 
and  every  of  the  said  articles  of  confederation  and 
perpetual  union  and  all  and  singular  the  matters  and 


46 


ARTICLES  OF  CONFEDERATION. 


things  therein  contained.  And  we  do  further  so- 
mly  plight  and  engage  the  faith  of  our  respective 
constituents,  that  they  shall  abide  by  the  determi- 
nations of  the  United  States  in  Congress  assembled,  in 
all  questions  which  by  the  said  confederation  are  sub- 
mitted to  them;  and  that  the  articles  thereof  shall  be 
inviolably  observed  by  the  states  we  respectively  repre- 
sent ;  and  that  the  union  shall  be  perpetual.  In  witness 
whereof,  we  have  hereunto  set  our  hands  in  Congress. 
DONE  at  Philadelphia  in  the  state  of  Pennsylvania,  the 
9fh  day  of  July,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord,  1778,  and  in 
the  third  year  of  the  Independence  of  America. 


2 


3 


Mew  Hampshire. 
Josiah  Bartlett, 
John  Wentworth,  jun. 

Massachusetts  Bay. 
'John  Hancock, 

•iarriuel  Adams, 

Ei bridge  Gerry, 

Francis  Dana, 

James  Lovell, 

Samuel  Holton. 


Rhode-Island,  fyc. 
C  William  Ellery, 
e  either  forever  disabled  to  hold  any  office  under 
government,  or  removed  from  such  officepro  tempore,  or 
subjected  to  such  paius  or  penalties  as  the  law  shall  di- 
rect. 

XVII.  If  all,  or  any  of  the  Judges  of  the  General 
Court,  shall,  on  good  grounds  (to  be  judged  of  by  the 
House  of  Delegates)  be  accused  of  any  of  the  crimes  or 
offences  beforementioned,  such  House  of  Delegates  may, 
in  like  manner,  impeach  the  Judge  or  Judges  so  accused, 
to  be  prosecuted  in  the  Court  of  Appeals  ;  and  lie  or  they, 
if  found  guilty,  shall  be  punished  in  the  same  manner  as 
is  prescribed  in  the  preceding  clause. 

XVIII.  Commissions  and  grants  shall  run  In  the  name 
of  the  Commonwealth  of  Virginia,  and  bear  teste  by 
ihc  Governor,  with  the  seal  of  the  Commonwealth  an- 
nexed. Writs  shall  run  in  the  same  manner,  and  bear 
teste  by  the  clerks  of  the  several  courts.  Indictments 
shall  conclude.  Against  the  peace  and  dignity  of  the  Com- 

Malth. 


of,  how 
appoint- 
ed ;  shall 
nominate 
their 

clerks,  re- 
commend 
sheriffs 
and  cor- 
oners to  ho 
commis- 
sioned by 
Execu- 
tive ;  and 
appoint 
consta- 
bles. 


Impeach- 
ments. 


Commis- 
sions, 
grants  and 
writs, 
stile,  and 
teste  of 
Indict- 
ments, 
conclusion 
of 


56 


CONSTITUTION  OF  VIRGINIA. 


Territorial 
limits :  ces- 
sion to  co- 
terminous 
states  :  fu- 
ture go- 
vernments 
west  of 
Mount  Al- 
legheny, 
how  to  be 
establish- 
ed. 


Treasurer.        XIX.  A  Treasurer  shall  be  appointed  annually,  by 
joint  ballot  of  both  Houses. 

Escheats,         XX.  All  escheats,  penalties,  and  forfeitures,  heretofore 
forfeitures.   SowS  to  tne  King-,  shall  go  to  the  Commonwealth,  save 

only  such  as  the  Legislature  may  abolish,  or  otherwise 

provide  for. 

XXI.  The  territories  contained  within  the  charters 
erecting  the  colonies  of  Maryland,  Pennsylvania,  North 
and  South  Carolina,  are  hereby  ceded,  released,  and  for- 
ever confirmed  to  the  people  of  those  colonies  respect- 
ively, with  all  the  rights  of  property,  jurisdiction,  and 
government,  and  all  other  rights  whatsoever  which  might 
at  any  time  heretofore  have  been  claimed  by  Virginia, 
except  the  free  navigation  and  use  of  the  rivers  Potowmac 
and  Pohomoke,  with  the  property  of  the  Virginia  shores 
or  strands  bordering  on  either  of  the  said  rivers,  and  all 
improvements  which  have  been  or  shall  be  made  thereon. 
The  western  and  northern  extent  of  Virginia  shall,  in  all 
oilier  respects,  stand  as  fixed  by  the  charter  of  King  James 
the  first,  in  the  year  one  thousand  six  hundred  and  nine, 
and  by  the  public  treaty  of  peace  between  the  Courts  of 
Great- Britain  and  France,  in  the  year  one  thousand  se- 
ven hundred  and  sixty-three  ;  unless,  by  act  of  Legisla- 
ture, one  or  more  territories  shall  hereafter  be  laid  off, 
and  governments  established  westward  of  the  Alleghany 
mountains.  And  no  purchase  of  lands  shall  be  made  of 
the  Indian  natives  but  on  behalf  of  the  public,  by  autho- 
rity of  the  General  Assembly. 

XXII.  In  order  to  introduce  this  government,  the  re- 
presentatives of  the  people  met  in  Convention  shall  choose 
a  Governor  and  Priv^  Council,  also  such  other  officers 
directed  to  be  chosen  by  both  Houses  as  may  be  judged 
necessary  to  be  immediately  appointed.  The  Senate  to 
be  first  chosen  by  the  people,  to  continue  until  the  last  day 
of  March  next,  and  the  other  officers  until  the  end  of  the 
succeeding  session  of  Assembly.  In  case  of  vacancies, 
the  Speaker  of  either  House  shall  issne  writs  for  new 
elections. 


No  pur- 
chases 
from  In- 
dian na- 
) 


III.    We  greatly  commending,  and  g.  viciously  ac 
'  n :;  of,  their  desires  for  the  furtherance  o(  so  nobk 
which  may,  by  the  providence  of  .Almighty  Go*' 
ter  tend  to  the  glory  of  his  divine  Majesi 
of  Christian  religion  to  such  peor '  \  as  yet  live  in  de.    . 
ness  and  miserable  ignorance  oft  ,-•  true  knowledge  and 
worship  of  God,  and  may  in  time  bring  the  infir'     ■  >.ud 
savages,  living  in  t'sose  parts,  to  human  c:   ,iity         !  to  a 
titled  and   quiet    government;  1 ; ..■  by  uiese  c, ...  letters 
patterns,  graciously  accept  of,  and   igree  to,  their  humble 
and  well  ■  tended 


First 
ay. 


ol 


IV. 


d 


?  and„ 

o*nct*c 

one  side   thereof,  and  his  portraiture  on  the  other  ;  and 
that  the  seal  for  the  council  of  the  said  first  colony  sha!] 
have  engraven  round  about,  on  the  one  side,  these  words ; 
Sigillum  Regis  Magna   Britannia:,  Francis,  et  Hiber-   Number  of 
nice:  on  the  other   side  this    inscription   round   about;  ihecouocil. 
Pro  Concilio  prima  Colonia  Virginia.   And  the  seal  for  - 

the  council  of  the  said  second  colony  shall  also  have  en- 
graven, round  about  the  one  side  thereof,  the  aforesaid 
words  :  Sigillum  Regis  Magna?,  Britannia,  Franciai, 
and  Hibernia  ;  and  on  the  other  side  ;  Pro  Concilio  se- 
cundas  Colonial,  Virginia  : 

VIII.  And  that  also  there  shall  be  a  council  establish-  SjJJ^J 
ed  here  in  England,  which  shall,  in  like  manner,  consist   England; 
of  thirteen  persons,  to  be,  for  that  .purpose,  appointed  by   its  number 
us,  our  heirs,  and  successors,  which  shall  be  called  our  an(  s 
Council  of  Virginia;   and  shall,  from  time  to  time,  have 

the  superior  managing  and  direction,  only  of  and  for  all 
matters,  that  shall  or  may  concern  the  government,  as  well 
of  the  said  several  colonies,  as  of  and  for  any  other  part 
or  place,  within  the  aforesaid  precincts  of  four  and  thir- 
H  and  five  and  forty  decrees,  abovementioned  ;  which 
council  shall,  in  like  manner,  have  a  seal,  formatters  con- 
cerning the  council  or  colonies,  with  the  like  arms  and 
portraiture,  as  aforesaid,  with  this  inscription,  engraven 
round  about  on  the  one  side  ;  Sigillum  Regis  Magmas, 
Britannia,  Francia,  and  Hibernia ;  and  round  about 
the  other  side.  Pro  Concilio  suo  Virginia. 

IX.  And  moreover,  we  do  grant  and  agree,  for  us,      Rja> 
our  heirs  and  successors,  that  the  said  several  councils,   search  fov 
of  and  for  the  said  several  colonies,  shalland  lawfully  may,      .    d'e 

,.  ,  r    r  .  .'..  .     J  Ji     mine*. 

by  virtue  hereof,  from  time  to  time,  without  any  interrup- 
tion of  us,  our  heirs  or  successors,  give  and  take  order,  to 
dig,  mine,  and  search  for  all  manner  of  mines  of  gold. 
•liver,  and  copper,  as  well  within  any  part  of  their  said  se- 
veral colonies,  as  of  ihe  said  main  lands  on  the  backside 


62 


ANCIENT  CHARTERS 


1606. 

Ap'l  10th. 
4th  James 

1st. 

Firvi  char- 
tei  (o  Sir 
Thomas 
*iates  and 
others. 

Ma-  coin 

>10l 


May  in- 
vite and 
carry  over 
adventur- 
ers. 


of  the  same  colonies ;  and  to  have  and  enjoy  the  gold, 
silver,  and  copper,  to  be  gotten  thereof,  to  the  use  and 
behoof  of  the  same  colonies,  and  the  plantations  there-  f; 
yielding  therefore,  to  us,  our  heirs  and  successors,  the 
fifth  par!  only  of  all  the  same  gold  and  silver,  and  the  fif- 
teenth part  of  all  the  same  copper,  so  to  begotten  or  had, 
as  is  aforesaid,  without  any  other  manner  of  profit  or  ac- 
count, to  be  given  or  yielded  to  us,  our  heirs,  or  succes- 
sors, for  or  in  respect  of  the  same  : 

X.  And  they  shall,  or  lawfully  may,  establish  and  cause 
to  be  made  a  coin,  to  pass  current  there  between  the  peo- 
ple of  those  several  colonies,  for  the  more  ease  of  traf- 
fick  and  bargaining  between  and  amongst  them  and  the 
natives  there,  of  such  metal,  and  in  such  manner  and  form, 
as  the  said  several  councils  there  shall  limit  and  appoint. 

XI.  And  we  do  likewise,  for  us,  our  heirs,  and  suc- 
cessors, by  these  presents,  give  full  power  and  authority 
to  the  said  Sir  Thomas  Gates,  Sir  George  Somers,  Rich- 
ard Hackluit,  Ed  ward- Maria  Wingfield,  Thomas  Han- 
ham,  Ralegh  Gilbert,  William  Parker,  and  George  Pop- 
ham,  and  to  every  of  them,  and  to  the  said  several  com- 
panies, plantations,  and  colonies,  that  they,  and  every  of 
them,  shall  and  may  at  all  and  every  time  and  times  here- 
after, have,  take,  and  lead  in  the  said  voyage,  and  for 
and  towards  the  said  several  plantations  and  colonies,  and 
to  travel  thitherward,  and  to  abide  and  inhabit  there,  in 
every  the  said  colonies  and  plantations,  such  and  so  many 
of  our  subjects,  as  shall  willingly  accompany  them,  or 
any  of  them,  in  the  said  voyages  and  plantations  ;  with 
sufficient  shipping,  and  furniture  of  armour,  weapons, 
ordnance,  powder,  victual,  and  all  other  things,  necessary 
for  the  said  plantations,  and  for  their  use  and  defence 
there  :  Provided  always,  That  none  of  the  said  persons 
be  such,  as  shall  hereafter  be  specially  restrained  by  us, 
our  heirs,  or  successors. 

May  repel  xil.  Moreover,  we  do,  by  these  presents,  for  us,  our 
heirs,  and  successors,  give  and  grant  licence  unto  the  said 
Sir  Thomas  Gates,  Sir  George  Somers,  Richard  Hackluit, 
Edward-Maria  Wingfield,  Thomas  Hanham,  Ralegh  Gil- 
bert, William  Parker,  and  George  Popham,  and  to  every 
of  the  said  colonies,  that  they,  and  every  of  them,  shall 
and  may,  from  time  to  time,  and  at  all  times  for  ever  here- 
after, for  their  several  defences,  encounter,  expulse.  repel, 


uVI*0. 


intruders. 


ing  to  the 
colonies 


ANCIENT  CHARTERS.  rjji 

and  resist,  as  well  by  sea  as  by  land,  by  all  ways  and  means      loOo. 

whatsoever,  all  and  every  such  person   and  persons,  as  A  .,  10th 
without  the   especial   licence  of  the  said  several  colonies 

and  plantations,  shall   attempt  to  inhabit  within  the  said  4th  James 
several  precincts  and  limits  of  the  said  several  colonies  and  '"*_, 

plantations,  or  any  of  them,  or  that  shall  enterprise  or  at-  Firs(  char. 

tempt,  at  any  time   hereafter,  the  hurt,  detriment,  or  an-  tertoSir 

novance,  of  the  said  several  colonies  or  plantations :  Thomas 

"  *  Gates  and 

XIII.  Giving  and  granting,  by  these  presents,  unto 

the  said  Sir  Thomas  Gates,  Sir  George  Somers,  Richard  Duties 
Hackluit,  Edward-Maria  Wingfield,  and  their  associates  payable  by 
of  the  said  first  colony,  and  unto  the  said  Thomas  Han-  persons 
ham,  Ralegh  Gilbert,  William  Parker,  and  George  Pop-  for  trad- 
ham,  and  their  associates  of  the  said  second  colony,  and 
to  every  of  them,  from  time  to  time,  and  at  all  times  fore- 
ver hereafter  power  and  authority  to  take  and  surprise, 
by  all  ways  and  means  whatsoever,  all  and  every  person 
and  persons,  with  their  ships,  vessels,  goods,  and  other 
furniture,  which  shall  be  found  trafficking,  into  any  har- 
bour or  harbours,  creek  or  creeks,  or  place,  within  the  li- 
mits or  precincts  of  the  said  several  colonies  and  plantati- 
ons, not  being  of  the  same  colon)',  until  such  time,  as  they, 
being  of  any  realms  or  dominions  under  our  obedience, 
shall  pay,  or  agree  to  pay,  to  the  hands  of  the  treasurer  of 
that  colony,  within  whose  limits  and  precincts  they  shall 
so  traffick,  two  and  a  half  upon  every  hundred,  of  any 
thing,  so  by  them  trafficked,  bought,  or  sold  ;  and  being 
strangers,  and  uotsubjects  under  our  obeysance,  until  they 
shall  pay  five  upon  every  hundred,  of  such  wares  and 
merchandises,  as  they  shall  traffick,  buy,  or  sell,  within 
the   precincts  of  the  said   several   colonier   wherein  they 

shall  so  traffick, buy,  or  sell,  as  aforesaid     /.atchsums  of         ftZ 

~      J       f  ■  ii-  use  of  thf 

money,  or  benefit,  as  aforesaid,  for  and  during  the  space   eolonie? 

of  one  and  twenty  years,  next  ensuing  the  date  hereof,   '■ - 

shall  be  wholly  emploied  to  the  u.se,  benefit,  and  behoof* of 

the  said  several  plai   a tioas,  where  such  traffic's    hall  bral  appendix,  all  the  most  important  papers.     They  are  now  in  the 
possession  of  Skelton  Jones,  Ksq.  who   has  undertaken  to  complete  the 
History   of   Virginia,  left    unfinished   by   his   predecessor.       From    tin- 
well  known  talents  of  this  gentleman,  and  his  celebrity  as  a  writer,  the 
public,  it  is  believed,  will  have  no  cause  to  regret  the  change  of  histo- 
rian-, notwithstanding  the  deservedly  hijjh  reputation  of  Mr.  Burk  as  an 


ANCIENT  CHARTERS.  77 

loving  people,  willing  to  abide  and  inhabit  in  certaine  1607. 

parts  of  Virginia  and  America,  and  divers  preheminen-  March  9. 
ces,  priviledges.  authorities  and  other  things  as  in  and  by         James 
the  said  letters  patents  more  particularly  it  appeareth;        |gt 

and  whereas  wee,  according  to  the  effect  and  true  mean-  ^s^***/ 
ing  of  the  said  letters  patents,   have,  by  a  former  instru- 

■      •  i  i  i         j     •  i  j  i    j    Ordinance 

merit  signed  with  our  hand  and  signe  mauuel,  and  sealed   &c  en_ 
with  our  privy  seal  of  our  realme  of  England,  established   lagging 
and  ordained,  that  our  trusty  and  wel- beloved  Sir  Willi-   'l^coun' 
am  Wade,  knight,  our  Lieutenant  of  our  Tower  of  Lon- 
don. Sir  Thomas  Smith,  knight,  Sir  Walter  Cope,  knight, 
Sir  George  Moor,  knight,  Sir  Francis  Popeham,  knight, 
Sir  Ferdinando  Gorges,  knight,  Sii  John  Trevor,  knight, 

•      tt  t»c  i      •    i  ..  i  r  ••*  c  Former 

Sir  Henry  Montague,  knight,  recorder  of  our  citty  ot  council. 
liondon,  Sir  William  Rumney,  knight,  John  Dodderidae,  lors. 
Esqr.  (b)  our  solicitor  general,  Thomas  Warr,  Esq.  Jo'n 
Eldred  of  our  city  of  London,  merchant,  Thomas  James 
of  our  citty  of  Bristol,  merchant,  and  James  Bagge  of 
Plymouth,  in  our  county  of  Devon,  merchant,  should  (c) 
be  our  councel  for  all  matters  which  »hould  (c)  happen 
in  Virginia  or  any  territories  of  America  aforesaid,  or 
any  actions,  businesse  or  causes,  for  and  concerning  the 
same,  which  councel  is  from  time  to  time  to  be  increased, 
altered,  or  changed  att  the  nomination  of  us,  our  heires 
and  successors,  and  att  our  and  their  will  and  pleasure; 
and  whereas  our  said  councel  have  found  by  experience,  . 
their  number  being  hut  fourteen  in  all,  and  most  of  them  number. 
dispersed  by  reason  of  their  several  habitations  far  and 
remote  the  one  from  the  other,  and  many  of  them  in  like 
manner  far  remote  from  our  citty  <>f  London,  where,  if 
need  require,  they  may  receive  directions  from  us  and 
our  privy  councel,  and  from  whence  instructions  and  di- 
rections may  be  by  them  left  and  more  readily  given,  for 
the  said  colonies,  that  when  very  needful  occasion  requir- 
f.th,  (d)  there  cannot  be  any  competent  number  of  them, 
by  any  meenes  be  drawne  together  for  consultation ;  for 
remedy  whereof  our  said  loving  subjects  of  the  several  co- 
lonies aforesaid,  have  been  humble  suitors  unto  us,  and 
have  to  that  purpose  offered  unto  our  royal  consideration, 
the  names  of  certaine  sage  and  discreet  persons,  and  hav- 
ing with  the  liko  humility  entreated  us,  that  the  said  per- 
ron !OU«    READINGS. 

Knight,"  ancient  records  |  " shall,''  ancient  reeowts 

*rs,  wee  doe  grant  unto  our 
said  councel  of  Virginia,  thatthey  or  any  twelve  of  them 


VARIOUS    READINGS. 

[c]  u  Our,"  not  in  ancient  records.     [/]  "  Berthley,"  ancient  records. 

[g]  '-Freak,"  ancient  records. 

Th\  "  May  arid  shall."  ancient  verm-rU 


their  offi- 
cers. 


ANCIENT  CHARTERS.  ?$ 

att  the  least  for  the  time  being  whereof  six  att  the  least     1607. 
to  be  members  of  one  of  the  said  colonies,  and  six  more 
att  the  least  to   be   members  of  the  other  rolony,  shall  Ma,ch9- 
have  full  power  and  authority,  to  ordaine.  nominate,  elect,  4th  James 
and  cli^ose  any  other  person,  or  persons  at  their  discreti-         **'• 
on  to  be  and  to  serve  as  officer  or  officers,  to  all  offices    ^*^-»~ 
and  pfaces,  that  shall  by  them  be  thought  fitt  and  requisite  ordinan 
for  the  businesse  and  affaires  of  our  said  councel,  and  con-  &c.  enlare 
earning  the  plantation  or  plantations  aforesaid,  and  for  in£,hf 
the  summoning,  calling,  and  assembling  of  the  said  coun- 
cel, together  when  need  shall  require,  or  for  summoning 
and  calling  before  the  said  councel,  any  of  the  adventur- 
ors,  or  others  which  shall  passe  on  (i)  unto  the  said  se-  T1,e,rP°w- 
veral  colonies  to  inhabit  or  to  traffirk  there  or  any  other 
such  like  officer,  or  offirers,  which  in  time  shall  or  may  be 
found  of  use    behoofe  or  importance  unto  the  (k)  councel 
aforesaid  (7)  (And  the  said  council  or  any  twelve  of  them 
as  is  aforesaid  shall   have  full  power  and  authority  from   May 
time  to  time  to  continue  or  to  alter  or  change  the  said  of-  change^ 
ficers  and  to  elect  and  appoint  others  in  their  roomes  and 
places,  to  make  and  ordain  acts  and  ordinances  for  the 
better  ordering  disposing  and  marshalling  of  the  said  se- 
veral colonies  and  the  severai  adventurers  or  persons  go- 
ing to  inhabit  in  the  same  several  colonies,  or  of  any  pro- 
vision or  provisions  for  the  same,  or  for  the  direction  of 
the  officers  aforesaid,  or  for  the  making  of  them  to  be  sub- 
ordinate or  under  jurisdiction  one  of  another,  and  to  do 
and  execute  all  ami  every  of  their  actand  things  which  by 
any  our  grants  or  letters  patents  heretofore  made  they  are 
warranted   or  authorised   to  do  or  execute  so  as  always 
none  of  the  said  acts  and  ordinances    r  other  things  be 
contrary  or  repugnant  to  the  true  intent  and  meaning  of 
our  said  letters  patents  granted  for  the  plantation  of  the 
said  several  colonies  in  Virginia  and  territories  of  Ame- 
rica as  aforesaid,  or  contrary  to  the  laws  and  statutes  in 
this  our  realm  of  England,  or  in  derogation  of  our  prero- 
gative royal.     Witness  ourself  at  Westminster,  the  ninth 
day  of  March,  in  the  year  of  our  reign  of  England,  France 
and  Ireland  the  fourth,  and  of  Scotland  the  fortieth,  &tc] 

VARIOUS    READINGS. 

[i]  ::  I     •        -Ancient  records,     [k]  "  Tltt"  omitted  in  ancient  records. 

(7)  From  ilie  beginning  to  the  word  "  aforesaid"  is  taken  from  a  MS. 
Record-Book  in  the  land-office  of  Virginia  ;  the  remainder,  from  the  an- 
i  records  •  •'  Virginia;  before  mentioned  in  note  (a). 


so 


ANCIENT  CHARTERb 


The  Second  Charter  to  the  Treasurer  and  Company,  for 
Virginia,  erecting  them  into  a  Corporation  and  Body 
Politic,  and  for  the  further  enlargement  and  explanation 
of  the  privileges  of  the  said  Company  and  First  fJolony 
of  Virginia. 


(Dated  May  23d,  1609.      7  James  1st 

No.  2.) 


-Stith's  A]>p. 


Second 
charter  to 
the  treasu- 
rer and 
company 
iw  Virgi- 
nia. 

Recital. 


I.  JAMES,  by  the  grace  of  God,  king  of  England, 
Scotland,  France,  and  Ireland,  defender  of  the  faith,  &c. 
To  all,  to  whom  the 
happy  success  of  the  said  plantation,  and  commending  te(1 
their  good  desires  therein,  for  their  further  encourage- 
ment in  accomplishing  so  excellent  a  work,  much  pleas- 
ing to  God,  and  profitable  to  our  kingdom,  do,  of  our  spe- 
cial grace  and  certain  knowledge,  and  mere  motion,  for 
us,  our  heirs  and  successors,  give,  grant,  and  confirm,  to 
our  trusty  and  well  beloved  subjects,  Robert,  earl  of  Salis- 
bury,  Thomas,  earl  of  Suffolk,  Henry,  earl  of  Southamp- 
ton, William,  earl  of  Pembroke,  Henry,  earl  of  Lincoln, 
earl  of  Dorset,  Thomas,  earl  of  Exeter,  Philip,  earl  of 
Montgomery,  Robert,  Lord  Viscount  Lisle,  Theophilus, 
Lord  Howard  of  Walden,  James  Montague,  Lord  Bish- 
op of  Bath  and  Wells,  Edward,  Lord  Zouche,  Thomas, 
Lord  Lawarr,  William,  Lord  Mounteagle,  Ralph,  Lord 
Ewre,  Edmond,  Lord  Sheffield,  Grey,  Lord  Chandois, 
LordCompton.  John,  Lord  Petre,  John,  Lord  Stanhope, 
George,  Lord  Carew,  Sir  Humphrey  Weld,  Lord  Mayor 
of  London,  George  Percie,  Esq :  Sir  Edward  Cecil,  Knt. 
Sir  George  Wharton,  Knt.  Francis,  West,  Esq.  Sir  Wil- 
liam Wade,  Knt.  Sir  Henry  Nevil,  Knt.  Sir  Thomas 
Smith,  Knt.  Sir  Oliver  Cromwell,  Knt.  Sir  Peter  Man- 
wood,  Knt.  Sir  Drue  Drury,  Knt.  Sir  John  Scot,  Knt. 
Sir  Thomas  Challoner,  Knt.  Sir  rfobert  Drury,  Knt.  Sir 
Anthony  Cope,  Knt.  Sir  Horatio  Vere,  Knt.  Sir  Edward 
Conway,  Knt.  Sir  William  Brown,  Knt.  Sir  Maurice 
Berkeley,  Knt.  Sir  Robert  Mansel,  Knt.  Sir  Amias  Pres- 
ton, Knt.  Sir  Thomas  Gates,  Knt.  Sir  Anthony  Ashly, 
Knt.  Sir  Michael  Sandys,  Knt.  Sir  Henry  Carey,  Knt. 
Sir  Stephen  Soame,  Knt.  Sir  (  alisthenes  Brooke,  Knt. 
Sir  Edward  Michelbom.  Knt.  Sir  John   Ratcliffe,  Knt 

h 


82 


ANCIENT  CHARTERS, 


1609. 

May  23d 

7th  James 
1st. 

Second 
charter  to 
the  trea- 
suver  and 
company 
of  Vir- 
ginia. 


Sir  Charles  Wilmot,  Knt.  Sir  George  Moor  Knt.  Sir 
Hugh  Wirral,  Knt.  Sir  Thomas  Dennis,  Knt.  Sir  John 
Holies,  Knt.  Sir  William  Godolphin,  Knt.  Sir  Thomas 
Monson,  Knt.  Sir  Thomas  Ridgwine,  Knt.  Sir  John 
Brooke,  Knt.  Sir  Robert  Killigrew,  Knt.  Sir  Henry  Pey- 
ton, Knt.  Sir  Richard  W  illianison,  Knt.  Sir  Ferdinando 
Weynman,  Knt.  Sir  William  St.  John,  Knt.  Sir  Thomas 
Hoferoft,  Knt.  Sir  John  Mallorv,  Knt.  Sir  Roger  Ash- 
ton,  Knt.  Sir  Walter  mas 
Cannon,  gentleman,  William  Welby,  stationer,  Clement 
Wilmer,  gentleman,  John    Ciapham,    gentleman,    Giles 
Francis,  gentleman,  George  Walker,  sadler,  John  Swin- 
how,  stationer,  Edward  Bishop,  staliorrer.  Leonard  White, 
gentleman,  Christopher  Baron,  Peter  Benson,  Richard 
Smith,   George  Proctor,  minister,    Millicent   Ramsden, 
widow,   Joseph  Soane,  Thomas  Hinshaw,  John   Baker, 
Robert  Thornton,  John  Davis,  Edward   Facit,  George 
Newce,   gentleman,    John  Robinson,   Captain   Thomas 
Wood,  William  Brown,  shoemaker,  Robert  Barker,  shoe- 
maker, Robert  Pennington,   Francis    Burley,    minister, 
William    Quick,  grocer,   Edward  Lewis,   grocer,  Lau- 
rence  Campe,  draper,   Aden   Perkins,  grocer,   Richard 
Shepherd,     preacher,     William    Sherley,    haberdasher, 
William    Taylor,     haberdasher,     Edwin    Lukin,    gen- 
tleman, John  Franklyn,   haberdasher,  John  Southwick, 
Peter     Peate,     George    Joban,     Ironmonger,     George 
\  i  ardley,  gentleman,  Henry  Shelley,  John  Prat,  Tho- 
mas    Church,     draper,     William     Powel,     gentleman, 
Richard    Frith,    gentleman,    Thomas    Wheeler,   draper, 
Francis  Haselrig,  gentleman,   Hugh  Shipley,  gentleman, 
John  Andrews,  the  elder,  doctor  of  Cambridge,  Francis 
Whistler,  gentleman,  John  Vassal,  gentleman.  Richard 


a6 


ANCIENT  CHARTERS. 


1609. 

May  23d. 

'Tth  James 
1st. 

2d  charier 
to  i  he  trea- 
surer & 
company 
of  Virgi- 
nfa. 


Howie,  Edward  Berkeley,  gentleman,  Richard  Keneridg- 
burg,  gentleman,  Nicholas  Exton,  draper,  William  Ben- 
net,  fishmonger,  James  Haywood,  merchant,  Nicholas 
Isaac,  merchant,  William  Gibbs,  merchant,  Bishop, 
Bernard  Mitchel,  Isaac  Mitchel,  John  Sireate,  Edward 
Gall,  John  Martin,  gentleman,  Thomas  Fox,  Luke 
Lodge,  John  Woodliffe,  gentleman,  Richard  Webb,  Vin- 
cent Low,  Samuel  Burnham,  Edmund  Pears, haberdasher, 
John  Goo^-e,  John  St.  John,  Edward  Vaughan,  William 
Dunn,  Thomas  Alcocke,  John  Andrews  the  younger,  of 
Cambridge,  Samuel  Smith,  Thomas  Gerrard,  Thomas 
Whittingham,  William  Canning,  Paul  Canning,  George 
Chandler,  Henry  Vincent,  Thomas  Ketley,  James  Skel- 
ton,  James  Mountaine,  George  Webb,  gentleman,  Joseph 
Newbridge.  Smith,  Josiah  Mand,  Captain  Ralph  Hamer, 
the  younger,  Edward  Brewster,  the  son  of  William  Brew- 
ster, Leonard  Harwood,  Mercer,  Philip  Druerdent  Wil- 
liam Carpenter,  Tristian  Hill,  Robert  Cock,  Grocer,  Lau- 
rence Grecie,  Grocer,  Samuel  Winch,  grocer,  Hum- 
phrey Stile,  grocer,  Avern  Dransfield,  grocer,  Edward 
Hodges,  grocer,  Edward  Beale,  grocer,  Thomas  Culler, 
grocer,  Ralph  Busby,  grocer,  John  Whittingham,  grocer, 
John  Hide,  grocer,  Matthew  Shepherd,  grocer,  Thomas 
Allen,  grocer,  Richard  Hooker,  grocer,  Lawrence  Munks, 
grocer,  John  Tanner,  grocer,  Peter  Gate,  grocer,  John 
Blunt,  grocer,  Robert  Phips,  grocer,  Robert  Berrisford, 
grocer,  Thomas  Wells,  grocer,  John  Ellis,  grocer,  Hen- 
ry Colthurst,  grocer,  John  Cavacly,  grocer,  Thomas  Jen- 
nings, grocer,  Edmond  {'ashall.  grocer,  Timothy  Ba- 
thurst.  grocer,  Giles  Parslow,  grocer,  Robert  Milmay, 
grocer,  Richard  Johnson,  grocer,  William  Johnson,  vint- 
ner, Ezekiel  Smith,  Richard  Martin,  William  Sharp? 
Robert  Rich,  William  Stannard,  innholder,  John  Stock- 
on.  William  Strache}\  gentleman.  George  Fanner,  gen- 
tleman, Thomas  Gypes,  ( lothworker,  Abraham  Davies, 
gentleman,  Thomas  Brockett,  gentleman,  George  Bache, 
fishmonger,  John  Dike,  fishmonger,  Henry  Spranger, 
Richard  Farrington,  Christopher  Vertue.vintner,  Thomas 
Bayley,  vintner,  George  Robins,  vintner,  Tobias  Hinson, 
grocer,  Vrian  Spencer,  Clement  Chickeley,  John  Scarpe, 
gentleman,  James  Campbell,  ironmonger,  Christopher 
Clitheroe,  ironmonger,  Philip  Jacobson,  Peter  Jacobson, 
of  Antwerp.  William  Berkeley,  Miles  Banks,  cutler,  Pe- 
ter Higgons,  grocer,  Henry  John,  gentleman,  John  Stock- 
ley,  merchant-taylor,  the  company  of  mercers,  the  com- 
pany of  grocers,  the  company  of  drapers,  the  company  of 


ANCIENT  CHARTERS.  **? 

fishmongers,  the  company  of  goldsmiths,  the  company  of     1609. 
skinners,  the  company  of  merchant-taylors,  the  company  M     23d 
of  haberdashers,  the  company  of  salters,  the  company  of 
ironmongers,  the  company  of  vintners,  the  company  of  7th  James 
clothworkers,   the    company  of  dyers,   the    company  of       lst 
brewers,   the  company  of  leathersellers,  the  company  of  ^J^J^. 
pewterers,  the  company  of  Cutlers,  the  company  of  white-  to  the 
bakers,  the  company  wax-chandlers,  the  company  of  tal-   treasurer 
low-chandlers,  the  company  of  armorers,  the  company  of  ^oirvh- 
girdlers,  the  company  of  butchers,  the  company  of  sadlers,  gjnia. 
the  company  of  carpenters,  the  company  of  cordwaynes, 
the  company  of  barber-chirurgeons,  the  company  of  paint- 
stainers,  the  company  of  curriers,  the  company  of  masons, 
the  company   of  plumbers,  the  company  inholders,  the 
company  of  founders, the  company  of  poulterers,  the  com- 
pany of  cooks,  the  company  of  coopers,  the  company  of 
tylers  and  bricklayers,  the  company  of  bowyers,  the  com- 
pany of  Fletchers,  the  company  of  blacksmiths,  the  com- 
pany of  joiners,  the  company  of  weavers,  the  company  of 
woolmen,  the  company  of  woodmongers,  the  company  of 
scriveners,    the   company  of  fruiterers,  the  company  of 
plaisterers,  the  company  of  Brownbakers,  the  company 
of  stationers,  the  company  of  imbroiderers,  the  company 
of  upholsters,  the  company  of  musicians,  the  company  of 
turners,  the  company  of  gardiners,  the  company  of  bas- 
ketmakers,  the  company  of  glaziers,  John   Levet,  mer- 
chant, Thomas  Nornicot,  clothworker,  Richard  Venn,  ha- 
berdasher, Thomas   Scot,  gentleman,  Thomas  Buxon, 
merchant-taylor,  George  Hankinson, Thomas  Seyer,  gen- 
tleman, Matthew  Cooper,  George  Butler,  gentleman,Tho- 
mas    Lawson,  gentleman,  Edward  Smith,  haberdasher, 
Steven  Sparrow,  John  Jones,  merchant,  Reynolds, 

brewer,  Thomas  Plummer,  merchant,  James  Duppa, 
brewer,  Rowland  Coitmore,  William  Sontherne,  George 
Whitmore,  haberdasher,  Anthony  Gosnold,  the  younger, 
John  Allen,  fishmonger,  Simon  Yeomans,  fishmonger, 
Lancelot  Davis,  gentleman,  John  Hopkins,  alderman  of 
Bristol,  John  Kettleby,  gentleman,  Richard  Clene,  gold- 
smith, George  Hooker,  gentleman,  Robert  Chening,  yeo- 
man; and  to  such  and  so  many,  as  they  do,  or  shall  here- 
after admit  to  be  joined  with  them,  in  form  hereafter  in 
these  presents  expressed,  whether  they  go  in  their  per- 
sons, to  be  planters  there  in  the  said  plantation,  or  whe- 
ther they  go  not,  but  adventure  their  monies,  goods,  or 
chatties;  That  they  shall  be  one  body  or  commonalty  per- 
petual, and  shall  have  perpetual  succession,  and  one  com- 


88 


ANCIENT  CHARTERS. 


1609. 

May  23d. 

7th  James 

1st. 


Stile  of  the 
Corpora- 
tion. 

May  take 
and  hold 
property, 
&c. 


May  plead 
and  be 
impleaded. 


Confirma- 
tion of  for- 
mer 
grants. 


Limits  of 
the  Colo- 
ny and  ex- 
tent of  ju- 
risdiction. 


mon  seal,  to  serve  for  the  said  body  or  commonalty ;  and 
that  they,  and  their  successors,  shall  be  known,  called,  and 
incorporated  by  the  name  of,The  Treasurer  and  Company 
of  Adventurers  and  Planters  of  the  City  of  London  for 
the  first  Colony  in  Virginia  : 

IV.  And  that  they  and  their  successors,  shall  be,  from 
henceforth,  forever  enabled  to  take,  acquire  and  purchase, 
by  the  name  aforesaid  (licence  for  the  same,  from  us, 
our  heirs  or  successors,  first  had  and  obtained)  any  man- 
ner of  lands,  tenements,  and  hereditaments,  good  and 
chattels,  within  our  realm  of  England,  and  dominion  of 
Wales: 

V.  And  that  they  and  their  successors,  shall  likewise 
be  enabled,  by  the  name  aforesaid,  to  plead  and  be  im- 
pleaded, before  any  of  our  judges  or  justices,  in  any  of 
our  courts,  and  in  any  actions  or  suits  whatsoever. 

VI.  And  we  do  also  of  our  special  grace,  certain  know- 
ledge and  mere  motion,  jfive,  grant  and  confirm,  unto  the 
said  treasurer  and  company,  and  their  successors,  under 
the  reservations,  limitations,  and   declarations,  hereafter 
expressed,  all  those  lands,  countries,  and  territories,  situ- 
ate, lying,  and  being,  in  that  part  of  America  called  Vir- 
ginia, from  the  point  of  land,  called  Cape  or  Point  Com- 
fort, all  along  the  sea  coast,  to  the  northward  two  hundred 
miles,  and  from  the  said  point  of  Cape  Comfort,  all  along 
the  sea  coast  to  the  southward  two  hundred  miles,  and  all 
that  space  and  circuit  of  land,  lying  from  the  sea  coast  of 
the  precinct  aforesaid,  up  into  the  land,  throughout  from 
sea  to  sea,  west  and  northwest;  and  also  all  the  islands, 
lying  within  one  hundred  miles,  along  the  coast  of  both 
seas  of  the  precinct  aforesaid ;  together  with  all  the  soils, 
grounds,  havens,  and  ports,  mines,  as  well  royal  mines  of 
gold  and  silver,  as  other   minerals,  pearls  and   precious 
stones,  quarries,  woods,  rivers,  waters,  fishings,  commo- 
dities, jurisdictions,  royalties,   privileges,  franchises  and 
preheminences,  within  the  said  territories,  and   the  pre- 
cincts thereof,    whatsoever,  and  thereto  and  thereabouts, 
both  by  sea  and  land,  being  or  in  any  sort  belonging  or  ap- 
pertaining, and  which  we  by  our  letters  patents,  may  or 
can  grant,  in  as  ample  manner  and  sort,  as  we  or  any  of 
our  noble  progenitors,  have  heretofore  granted  to  any 
company,  body  politick  or  corporate,  or  to  any  adventurer 
or  adventurers,  undertaker  or  undertakers,  of  any  disco- 


ANCIENT  CHARTERS.  89 

veries,  Plantations,  or  trafiick,  of,  in  or  into  any  foreign      1609. 
parts  whatsoever,  and  in  as  large  and  ample  manner,  as  if 
the  same  were  herein  particularly  mentioned  and  express-   May  23tl- 
ed ;  to  have  and  to  hold,  possess  and  enjoy,  all  and  sin-  7th  james 
gular  the  said  lands,  countries  and  territories,  with  all  and         1st. 
singular  other  the  premises,  heretofore  hy  these  presents    v^-v-w 
granted,  or  mentioned  to  be  granted,  to  them,   the  said      Haben*» 
treasurer  and  company,  their  successors  and  assigns  for- 
ever ;  to  the  sole  and  proper  use  of  them,  the  said  treasu- 
rer and  company,  their  successors  and  assigns   for  ever ;   Tenure.- 
to  be  holden  of  us,  our  heirs,  and  successors,  as  of  our 
manour  of  East  Greenwich,  in  free  and  common  soccage, 
and  not  in  capite ;  yielding  and  paying,  therefore,  to  us, 
our  heirs,  and  successors,  the  fifth  part  only  of  all  ore  of 
gold  and  silver,  that  from  time  to  time,  and  at  all  times 
hereafter,  shall  be  there  gotten,   had,  or  obtained  for  all 
manner  of  services. 

VII.  And  nevertheless,  our  will  and  pleasure  is,  and  *>ro*lslon 

.         ,  .  r  ,  for  former 

we  do.  by  these  presents,  charge,  command,  warrant,  adventuv- 
and  authorise,  that  the  said  treasurer  and  company,  or  e«"s. 
their  successors,  or  the  major  part  of  them,  which  shall 
be  present  and  assembled  for  that  purpose,  shall,  from 
time  to  time,  under  their  common  seal,  distribute,  convey, 
assign,  and  set  over,  such  particular  portions  of  lands, 
tenements,  and  hereditaments,  by  these  presents  formerly 
granted,  unto  such  our  loving  subjects,  naturally  born, 
or  denizens,  or  others,  as  well  adventurers  as  planters, 
as  by  the  said  company  (upon  a  commission  of  survey 
and  distribution,  executed  and  returned  for  that  purpose,) 
shall  be  nominated,  appointed,  and  allowed;  wherein  our 
will  and  pleasure  is,  that  respect  be  had,  as  well  of  the 
proportion  of  the  adventurer,  as  to  the  special  service,  ha- 
zard, exploit,  or  merit  of  any  person  so  to  be  recompenc- 
§d,  advanced,  or  rewarded. 

VIII.  And  forasmuch,  as  the  good  and  prosperous  sue-  9ne  cou!1, 
cess  of  the  said  plantation  cannot  but  chiefly  depend,  next  £n  ordain,  es- 
tablish and  confirm,  that   there  shall  be  perpetually  one 

M 


90 


ANClEiNT  CHARTERS. 


1609. 


May  23d. 

7th   James 
1st. 


2d  charter 
to  the 
treasurer 

and  com- 
pany of 
Virginia. 

Names  of 
the  mem- 
bers. 


Treasurer. 


Council  \. 
Ireasnrei , 
how  cho- 
sen and 
vacancu s 
supplied. 


council  heje  resident,  according  to  thetenour  of  our  for- 
mer letters  patents  ;  which  council  shall  have  a  seal,  for 
the  better  government  and  administration  of  the  said  plan- 
tation,  besides  the  legal  seal  of  the  company  or  corpora* 
tion,  as  in  our  former  letters  patents  is  also  expressed. 

IX.  And  further,  we  establish  and  ordain,  that  Henry, 
Earl  of  Southampton,  William,  Earl  of  Pembroke,  Hen- 
ry, Earl  of  Lincoln,  Thomas,  Earl  of  Exeter,  Robert, 
Lord  Viscount  Lisle,  Lord  Theophilus  Howard,  James, 
Lord  Bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells,  Edward,  Lord  Zouehe, 
Thomas,  Lord  Lawarr,  William,  Lord  Monteagle,  Ed- 
mond,  Lord  Sheffield.  Grey,  Lord  Chandois,  John,  Lord 
Stanhope,  George,  Lord  Carew,  Sir  Humfrey  Weld,  Lord 
Mayor  of  London,  Sir  Edward  Cecil,  Sir  William  Wade, 
Sir  Henry  Nevil,  Sir  Thomas  Smith,  Sir  Oliver  Crom- 
well, Sir  Peter  Manwood,  Sir  Thomas  Challoner,  Sir 
Henry  Hobart,  Sir  Francis  Bacon,  Sir  George  Coppiu. 
Sir  John  Scot,  Sir  Henry  Carey,  Sir  Robert  Drury,  Sir 
Horatio  Vere,  Sir  Edward  Conway,  Sir  Maurice  Berke- 
ley, Sir  Thomas  Gates,  Sir  Michael  Sandys,  Sir  Robert 
Mansel,  Sir  John  Trevor,  Sir  Amias  Preston,  Sir  William 
Godolphin,  Sir  Walter  Cope,  Sir  Robert  Killigrew,  Sir 
Henry  Fanshaw,  Sir  Edwin  Sandys,  Sir  John  Watts, 
Sir  Henry  Montague,  Sir  William  Romney,  Sir  Thomas 
Roc,  Sir  Baptist  Hicks,  Sir  Richard  Williamson,  Sir  Ste- 
phen Poole,  Sir  Dudley  Digges,  Christopher  Brooke, 
Esq.  John  Eldred,  and  John  VV  olstenholme,  shall  be  our 
Council  for  the  said  Company  of  Adventurers  and  Plan- 
ters in  Virginia. 

X.  And  the  said  Thomas  Smith  we  do  ordain  to  be 
treasurer  of  the  said  company ;  which  treasurer  shall  have 
authority  to  give  order,  for  the  warning  of  the  council, 
and  summoning  the  company,  to  their  courts  and  meet- 
ings. 

XI.  And  the  said  council  and  treasurer,  or  any  of  thems 
shall  be  from  henceforth,  nominated,  chosen,  continued, 
displaced,  changed,  altered,  and  supplied,  as  death,  or 
other  several  occasions,  shall  require,  out  of  the  company 
of  the  said  adventurers,  by  the  voice  of  the  greater  part 
of  the  said  company  and  adventurers,  in  their  assembly 
for  that  purpose  :  Provided  always,  that  every  counsel- 
lor, so  newly  elected,  shall  be  presented  to  the  lord  chan- 
cellor of  Eugland,  or  to  the  lord  high  treasurer  of  Eng- 


ANCIENT  CHARTERS.  91 

land,  or  to  (he  lord  chamberlain  of  the  household  ol  us,      1609. 

our  heirs,  and  successors,    for  the  time  being',  to  take  his 

oath  of  a  counsellor  to  us,   our  heirs  and  successors,  for 

the    said   company   of  adventurers    and   colony  in    Vrir-  Tsii  James 

ginia.  3st' 

XII.  And  we  do  bv  these  presents,  of  our  special  era  re,  pdcham 
certain  knowledge,  and  mere  motion,  tor  us,  our  heirs  and  treasurer 
successors,  grant  unto  the  said  treasurer  and  company,  &  con>P»- 
and  their  successors,  that  if  it  happen,  at  any  time  or  times,  „Ja-^a 
the  treasurer  for  the  time  being  to  be  sick,  or  to  have  any 

such  cause  of  absence  from  the  city  of  London,   as  shall 
be  allowed  by  the  said  council,  or  the  greater  part  of  them, 
assembled,  so  as  he  cannot  attend  the  affairs  of  tint  com- 
pany, in  every  such  case,  it  shall  and  may  be  lawful  for 
such  treasurer  for  the  time  being,  to  assign,  constitute  and 
appoint,  one  of  the   council  or  company,   to  be  likewise 
allowed  by  the  council,  or  the  greater  part  of  them,  assem- 
bled, to    be   the  deputy    treasurer  of  the  said   company; 
which   deputy   shall   have   power  to  do  and   exeeut?   all 
things,  which  belong  to  the  said   treasurer,  during  such       Depuiy 
time,  as  such  treasurer  shall  be  either  sick,  or  otherwise  W|)(!B   nr^ 
absent  upon  cause  allowed  of  by  the  said  council,  or  the  haw  ap- 
major  part  of  them,  as  aforesaid,  so  full}'  and  wholly,  and  P°'nted 
in  as  large  and  ample  manner  and  form,  to  all  intents  and 
purposes,  as  the  said  treasurer,  if  he  were  present,  him- 
self might  or  could  do  and  execute  the  same. 

XIII.  And  further,  of  our  special  grace,  certain  know-  Council  in 
ledge,  and  mere  motion,  for  us,  our  heirs,  and  successors,  England, 
we  do,   by  these  presents,  give  and  grant  full  power  and  i°  aPPoint 
authority  to  our  said  council,  here  resident,  as  well  at  this  officers: 
present  time,  as  hereafter  from  time  to  time,  to  nominate,  &c 
make,  constitute,  ordain,   and   confirm,  by  such  name  or 

names,  stile  or  stiles,  as  to  them  shall  seem  good,  and 
likewise  to  revoke,  discharge,  change,  and  alter,  as  well 
all  and  singular  governors,  officers,  and  ministers,  which 
already  have  been  made,  as  also  which  hereafter  shall  be 
by  them  thought  (it  and  needful  to  be  made  or  used,  for 
Mie  government  of  the  said  colony  and  plantation  ; 

XIV.  And  also  to  make,  ordain,  and  establish  all  man- 
ner of  orders,  laws,   directions,   instructions,  forms,  and       To  esi« 
ceremonies  of  government  and  magistracy,  lit  ami  neces-  wjshf  hereafter,  to  ihe  colon? 


9£ 


ANCIENT  CHARTERS. 


1609. 

May  23d. 

7th  James 
1st. 

Snd 
charter    to 
the  trea- 
surer and 
company 
of    Virgin- 
ia. 


On  notice 
of  the   ap- 
pointment 
of  a    Gov- 
enor  by 
the  treasu- 
rer &.  com- 
pany, the 
powers  of 
the  termer 
governor 
&,  council 
to  cease. 


How  new 
members 
may  be  ad- 
mitted, k. 
old  ones 
disfran- 
chised, 


Privilege 
of  mining. 


abrogate,  revoke,  or  change,  not  only  within  the  precincts 
of  the  said  colony,  but  also  upon  the  seas  in  going  and 
coming,  to  and  from  the  said  colony,  as  they,  in  their 
good  discretion,  shall  think  to  he  fittest  for  the  good  of 
the  adventurers  and  inhabitants  there. 

XV.  And  we  do  also  declare,  that,  for  divers  reasons 
and  considerations  ns  thereunto  especially  moving,  our 
will  and  pleasure  is,  and  we  do  hereby  ordain,  that  im- 
mediately from  and  after  such  time,  as  any  such  governor 
or  principal  officer,  so  to  be  nominated  and  appointed,  by 
our  said  council,  for  the  government  of  the  said  colony, 
as  aforesaid,  shall  arrive  in  Virginia,  and  give  notice  un- 
to the  colony  there  resident  of  our  pleasure  in  this  behalf, 
the  government,  power,  and  authority  of  the  president 
and  council,  heretofore  by  our  former  letters  patents  there 
established,  and  all  laws  and  constitutions,  by  them  for- 
merly made,  shall  utterly  cease  and  be  determined,  and 
all  officers,  governors,  and  ministers, formerly  constituted 
or  appointed,  shall  be  discharged,  any  thing,  in  our  for- 
mer letters  patents  concerning  the  said  plantation  con- 
tained, in  any  wise  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding; 
straightly  charging  and  commanding  the  president  and 
council,  now  resident  in  the  said  colony,  upon  their  alle- 
giance, after  knowledge  given  unto  them  of  our  will  and 
pleasure,  by  these  presents  signified  and  declared,  that  they 
forthwith  be  obedient  to  such  governor  or  governors,  as 
by  our  said  council,  here  resident,  shall  be  named  and 
appointed,  as  aforesaid,  and  to  all  directions,  orders  and 
commandments,  which  they  shall  receive  from  them,  as 
well  in  the  present  resigning  and  giving  up  of  their  au- 
thority, offices,  charges  and  places,  as  in  all  other  attend- 
ance, as  shall  be  by  them,  from  time  to  time,  required. 

XVI.  And  we  do  further,  by  these  presents,  ordain 
and  establish,  that  the  said  treasurer  and  council  here 
resident,  and  their  successors,  or  any  four  of  them,  be- 
ing assembled  (the  treasurer  being  one)  shall,  from  time 
to  time,  have  full  power  and  authority,  to  admit  and  re- 
ceive any  other  person  into  their  company,  corporation, 
and  1  eedomj  and  further,  in  a  general  assembly  of  the 
adventurers,  with  the  consent  of  the  greater  part,  upon 
good  cause,  to  disfranchise  and  put  out  any  person  or  per- 
sons, out  of  the  said  freedom  and  company. 

XVII.  And  we  do  also  grant  and  confirm,  for  us,  our 
heirs  and  successors,  that   it  shall  be  lawful  for  the  said 


ANCIENT  CHARTERS.  9S 

treasurer  and  company,  and  their  successors,  by  direction      1609. 
of  the  governors  there,  to  dig  and  to  search  for  all  manner 
of  mines  of  gold,  silver,  copper,  iron,  lead,   tin,  and  all 
sorts  of  minerals,  as  well  within  the  precinct  aforesaid,   7ih  James 
as  within  any  part  of  the  main  land,  not  formerly  granted         ls( 
to  any  other;  and  to  have  and  enjoy  the  gold,  silver,  cop- 
per, iron,  lead,  and  tin,  and  all  other  minerals,  to  be  got-  2ti  charter 
ten  thereby,   to  the  use  and  behoof  of  the  said  company  to  thi- 
ol'planters  and  adventurers;  yielding  thereof,  and  paying  g^j^. 
yearly,  unto  us,  our  heirs  and  successors,  as  aforesaid.        ,,v  0f  Vir- 

GfUil&a 

XVIII.  And  we  do  further,  of  our  special  grace,  cer- 
tain knowledge,  and  mere  motion,  for  us,  our  heirs,  and  Treasurer] 
successors,  grant,  by  these  presents,  to  and  with  the  said   and  com- 
treasurer  and  company,  and  their  successors,  that  it  shall  [^^  \"&y 
be  lawful  and  free  for  them,  and  their  assigns,  at  all  and  venturers 
every  time  and  times  hereafter,  out  of  our  realm  of  Eng-  irom  E|1S- 
land,  and  out  of  all  other  our  dominions,  to  take  and  lead  e™eVhere 
into  the  said  voyages,  and  for  and  towards  the  said  plan- 
tation, and  to  travel  thitherwards,  and  to  abide  and  inha- 
bit there  in  the  said  colony  and  plantation,  all  such  and  so 

many  of  our  loving  subjects,  or  any  other  strangers,  that 
will  become  our  loving  subjects  and  live  under  our  obe- 
dience, as  shall  willingly  accompany  them  in  the  said 
voyage  and  plantation;  with  sufficient  shipping,  armour, 
weapons,  ordinance,  munition,  powder,  shot,  victuals,  and 
such  merchandizes  or  wares,  as  are  esteemed  by  the  wild 
people  in  those  parts,  cloathing,  implements,  furniture, 
cattle,  horses,  and  mares,  and  all  other  things,  necessary 
for  the  said  plantation,  and  for  their  use,  and  defence, 
and  trade  With  the  people  there;  and  in  passing  and  re- 
turning to  and  fro;  without  yielding  or  paying  subsidy, 
custom,  imposition,  or  any  other  tax  or  duty,  to  us,  our 
heirs  or  successors,  for  the  space  of  seven  years  from  the 
date  of  these  presents:  Provided,  that  none  of  the  said 
persons  be  such,  as  shall  be  hereafter,  by  especial  name, 
restrained  by  us,  our  heirs,  and  successors.  Colonists 

XIX.  And  for  their  further  encu-uragement,  of  our  spe-  from  cus- 
cial  grace  and  favor,  we  do,  by  these  presents,  for  us,  our  J°ms  ior 
heirs,  and  successors,  yield  and  grant,  to  and  with  the  ami Vlon', 
said  treasurer  and  company,  and  their  successors,  and  eve-  taxes  lor- 
ry of  them,  their  factors,  and  assigns,  that  they  and  every  ev"'P" 
of  them,   shall   be  free  of  all   subsidies  and    customs  in  ,,tr cent. 
Virginia,  for  the  space  of  one  and  twenty  years,  and  from  o»  goods 
ali  i  axes  and   impositions,    for  ever,   upon  any  goods  or  !wtp0we? 

gland. 


34 


ANCIENT  CHARTERS. 


1609. 

May  23 J. 

Tl!)  James 
1st. 


Second 
charter  to 
the  trea- 
surer and 
Company 
of  Vinriri- 


Golonjsts 
may  expel 
intruders, 


Duly  on 
foreigners. 


merchandises,  at  any  time  or  times  hereafter,  either  upon 
importation  thither,  or  exportation  from  thence,  into  our 
realms  of  England,  or  into  any  other  of  our  realms  or  do- 
minions, by  the  said  treasurer  awd  company,  and  their 
successors,  their  deputies,  factors,  or  assigns,  or  any  of 
them :  Except  only  the  five  pounds  per  cent,  due  for  cus- 
tom, upon  all  such  goods  and  merchandizes,  as  shall 
be  brought  or  imported  into  our  realm  of  England,  or 
any  other  of  these  our  dominions,  according  to  the  ancient 
trade  of  merchants;  which  five  pounds  per  cent,  only  be- 
ing paid,  it  shall  be  thenceforth  lawful  and  free  for  the 
said  adventurers,  the  same  goods  and  merchandizes  to  ex- 
port, and  carry  out  of  our  said  dominions,  into  foreign 
parts,  without  any  custom,  tax,  or  other  duty,  to  be  paid 
to  us,  our  heirs,  or  successors,  or  to  any  other  our  officers 
or  deputies;  Provided,  that  the  said  goods  and  merchan- 
dizes be  shipped  out,  within  thirteen  months,  after  the  first 
landing  within  any  part  of  those  dominions. 

XX.  And  we  do  also  grant  and  confirm  to  the  said 
treasurer  and  company,  and  their  successors,  as  also  to 
all  and  every  such  governor,  or  other  officers  and  minis- 
ters, as  by  our  said  council  shall  be  appointed  to  have 
power,  authority  of  government  and  command,  in  or  over 
the  said  colony  or  plantation ;  that  they,  and  every  of  them, 
shall  and  lawfully  may,  from  time  to  time,  and  at  all  times 
for  ever  hereafter,  for  their  several  defence  and  safety,  en- 
counter, expulse,  repel,  and  resist,  by  force  and  arms,  as 
well  by  sea  as  by  land,  and  all  ways  and  means  whatso- 
ever, all  and  every  such  person  and  persons  whatsoever, 
as  (without  the  special  licence  of  the  said  treasurer  and 
company,  and  their  successors)  shall  attempt  to  inhabit, 
within  the  said  several  precincts  and  limits  of  the  said 
colony  and  plantation;  and  also,  all  and  every  such  per- 
son and  persons  whatsoever,  as  shall  enterprise  or  at- 
tempt, at  any  time  hereafter,  destruction,  invasion,  hurt, 
detriment,  or  annoyance,  to  the  said  colony  and  planta- 
tion, as  is  likewise  specified  in  the  said  former  grant. 

XXI.  And  that  it  shall  be  lawful  for  the  said  treasurer 
and  company,  and  their  successors,  and  every  of  them, 
from  lime  to  time,  and  at  all  times  for  ever  hereafter,  and 
they  shall  have  full  power  and  authority,  to  take  and  sur- 
prise, by  all  ways  and  means  whatsoever,  all  and  every 
person  and  persons  whatsoever,  with  their  ships,  goods, 
and  other  furniture,  trafficking  in  any  harbor,  creek,   or 


ANCIENT  CHARTERS.  05 

ce  within  the  limits  or  precincts  of  the  said  colony  and     1609. 
plantation,  not  being  allowed  by  the  said  company  to  be 
•adventurers  or  planters  of  the  said  colony,  until  such  time,      ''-v 
as  they,  being  of  any  realms  and  dominions  under  our  7th  James 
obedience,  shall  pay,  or  agree  to  pay,  to  the  hands  of  the        lst- 
treasurer  or  of  some  other  officer,  deputed  by  the  said   v-""'v~^' 
governor  of  Virginia  (over  and  above  such  subsidy  and  ?^  the*"0' 
custom,  as  the  said  company  is,  or  hereafter  shall  be,  to  treasurer 
pay)  five  pounds  percent,  upon  all  goods  and  merchan-  &cpmpa 
dizes  so  brought  in  thither,  and  also  five  per  cent,  upon  "j^ 
all  goods  by  them  shipped  out  from  thence  ;  and  being 
strangers,  and  not  under  our  obedience,  until  they  have 
paid  (over  and  above  such  subsidy  and  custom,  as  the 
said  treasurer  and  company,  or  their  successors,  is,  or 
hereafter  shall  be,  to  pay)  ten  pounds  per  cent,  upon  all 
such  goods,  likewise,  carried  in  and  out,  any  thing,  in  the 
-aid  former  letters  patents,  to  the  contrary  notwithstand- 
ing; and  the  same  sums  of  money  and  benefit,  as  afore 
said,  for  and  during  the  space  of  one  and  twenty  years, 
.-.hall  be  wholly  employed  to  the  benefit,  use,  and  behoof 
of  the  said  colony  and  plantation;  and  after  the  said  one 
and  twenty  years  ended,  the  same  shall  be  taken  to  the 
use  of  us,  our  heirs  and  successors,  by  such  officers  and 
ministers,   as   by  us,  our  heirs,   or  successors,  shall  be 
thereunto  assigned  and  appointed,  as  is  specified  in  the 
said  former  letters  patents. 

XXII.  Also,  we  do,  for  us,  our  heirs,  and  successors, 
declaic,  by  these  presents,  that  all  and  every  the  persons,  e/sv&the;; 
being  our  subjects,  which  shall  go  and  inhabit  within  the  posterity 
-aid  eolonv  and  plantation,  ande^ery  of  theirchildrenand  ,0,be  ,con~ 
posterity,  which,  shall  happen  to  be  born  within  any  the  British 
limits  thereof,  shall  have  and  enjoy  all  liberties,  franchi-  subject- 

and  immunities  of  free  denizens  and  natural  subjects, 
within  any  of  our  other  dominions,  to  all  intents  and  pur- 
poses, as  if  they  had  been  abiding  and  born,  within  this 
our  realm  of  England,  or  in  any  other  of  our  dominions. 

XXIII.  And  forasmuch,  as  it  shall  be  necessary  for  all  1>owcr  ot' 
»uch  our  loving  subjects,  as  shall  inhabit  within  the  said  Cj[  jn  £„ 
precincts  of  Virginia,  aforesaid,  to  determine  to  live  to-  gland, as 
^eiher,  in  the  fear  and  true  worship  of  Almighty  God,  ,0Clv,la,ir: 

Pm     •     •  i       •      i  ■  '  i-ii  religion^ 

L-lirisiian  peace,  and   civil  quietness,  each  with  other,   mAurr  . 
whereby  every  one  may,  with  more  safety,  pleasure,  and 
profit,  enjoy  that,  whereunto  they  shall  attain  with  great 
pain,  and  peril ;  we,  for  us,  our  heirs,  and  sueros«ors.  are 


96 


ANCIENT  CHARTERS. 


1609. 

May  23d. 

7(h    James 
1st. 

2d  charter 
to  the 
treasurer 
&.  compa- 
ny of   Vir- 
ginia. 


likewise  pleased  and  contented,  and  by  these  prsents,  dt> 
give  and  grant  unto  the  said  treasurer  and  company,  and 
their  successors,  and  to  such  governors,  officers  and  mi- 
nisters, as  shall  be,  by  our  said  council,  constituted  and 
appointed,  according  to  the  natures  and  limits  of  their 
offices  and  places  respectively,  that  they  shall  and  may, 
from  time  to  time  forever  hereafter,  within  the  said  pre- 
cincts, of  Virginia,  or  in  the  way  by  *  sea  thither  and 
from  thence,  have  full  and  absolute  power  and  authority, 
to  correct,  punish,  pardon,  govern  and  rule,  all  such  the 
subjects  of  us,  our  heirs  and  successors,  as  shall,  from 
time  to  time,  adventure  themselves  in  any  voyage  thither, 
or  that  shall,  at  any  time  hereafter,  inhabit  in  the  precincts 
and  territories  of  the  said  colony,  as  aforesaid,  according 
to  such  orders,  ordinances,  constitutions,  directions,  and 
instructions,  as  by  our  said  council,  as  aforesaid,  shall  be 
established  ;  and  in  defect  thereof,  in  case  of  necessity, 
according  to  the  good  t  discretions  of  the  said  governor 
and  officers,  respectively,  as  well  in  cases  capital  and  cri- 
minal as  civil,  both  marine  and  other;  So  always,  as  the 
said  statutes,  ordinances  and  proceedings,  as  near  as  con- 
veniently may  be,  be  agreeable  to  the  laws,  statutes,  go- 
vernment, and  policy  of  our  realm  of  this  England. 

XXIV.  And  we  do  further,  of  our  special  grace,  cer- 
tain knowledge,  and  mere  motion,  grant,  declare  and  or- 
dain, that  such  principal  governor,  as  from  time  to  time. 
shall  duly  and  lawfully  be  authorised  and  appointed,  in 
manner  and  form  in  these  presents  heretofore  expressed, 
shall  have  full  power  and  authority,  to  use  and  exercise 
martial  law,  in  cases  of  rebellion  or  mutiny,  in  as  large 
and  ample  manner,  as  our  lieutenants  in  our  J  counties, 
within  this  our  realm  of  England,  have  or  ought  to  have, 
by  force  of  their  commissions  of  Lieutenantcy. 

Penaityfor  XXV.  And  furthermore,  if  any  person  or  persons,  ad- 
fraudulent-  venturers  or  planters  of  the  said  colony,  or  any  other,  at 
•roods  oth-  any  t-lme  ov  tmies  hereafter,  shall  transport  any  monies, 
er  than  to  goods  or  merchandises,  out  of  any  of  our  kingdoms,  with 
the  port  of  .,  pretence  or  purpose,  to  land,  sell  or  otherwise  dispose  of 
tioii.  the  same,  within  the  limits  or  bounds  of  the  said  colony. 

ahd  yet  nevertheless,  being  at  sea,  or  after  he  hath  landed 
within  any  part  oH  the  said  colony,  shall  carry  the  sani" 


Power  of 
the  gover- 
nor and 
council  in 
Virginia. 


Martial 
!avv  to  be 
f  ii  forced 
in  cases  of 
rebellion 
or  mutiny. 


MS, 


seas 


+  MS.  Directions 


:   M3.  Country? 


ANCIENT  CHARTERS.  97 

into  any  other   foreign  country,  with  a  purpose  there  to      1609. 
sell  ami  dispose  thereof;  that  then  all  the  poods  and  chat- 
tels of  the  said  person,  or  persons,  so  offending  and  trans- 
ported, together  with    the  ship  or  vessel,  wherein  such  7th  James 
transportation    was    made,    shall   be   forfeited  to  us,  our        lsf- 
heirs  and  successors. 

XXVT.  And  further  our  v. ill  and  pleasure  is,  that  in  Construe- 
all  questions  and  doubts,  that  shall  arise,  upon  any  diffi-  tll011  of  . 

,   l  .  '.  •  r  *\  •  charters! 

culty  oi  construction  or  interpretation  of  any  tiling-,  con-  to  bPmosti 

taiued  either  in  this,  or  in  oursaid  former  letters  patents,  the   favorai.ie 

same  shall  be  taken   and  interpreted,  in  most  ample  and   ,otrtja>ur' 

/»  •  i>  •  i  j   ei  anaid  first  colony  in  Virginia,  and  to  no- 
minate and  appoint  such  officers,  as  they  shall  think  fit  Their 
and  requisite,  for  the  government,  managing,  order-  Power 
ing,  and  dispatching  of  the  affairs  of  the  said  company, 
and  shall  likewise  have  full  power  and  authority,  to  or- 
dain and  make  such  laws  and  ordinances,  for  the  good 
and  welfare  of  the  said  plantation,  as  to  them,  from  time 
to  time,  shall  be  thought  requisite  and  meet:  so  always,  as 
the  same  be  not  contrary  to  the  laws  and  statutes  of  this 
our  realm  of  England  ;  and  shall,  in  like  manner,  J  have 
power  and  authority,  to  expulse,  disfranchise,  and  put, 
out  of  and  from  their  said  company  and  society,  for  ever, 
all  and  every  such  person  and  persons,  as  having  either 
promised,  or  subscribed  their  names,  to  become  adventu- 
rers to  the  said  plantation  of  the  said  first  colony  in  Vir- 
ginia, fy  or  having  been  nominated  for  adventurers,  in 
these  or  any  other  our  letters  patents,  or  having  been 
otherwise  admitted  and  nominated  to  be  of  the  said  com- 
pany, have  nevertheless  either  not  put  in  any  adventure 
at  all,  for  and  towards  the  said  plantation,  or  else  have  re 

*  MS.  w,  with  a  blank  after  it  t  MS.  in  and  every 

1   MS.  Iiave  •ud  authority  ,  MS.  of 


104 


ANCIENT  CHARTERS. 


1611-2. 

March  12. 
9th  J  imes 

1st. 

3d  char- 
ter,  &c. 

TIip  judg- 
es, atWesf- 
mjnister 

and  else- 
where to 
favor  suits 
i'or  sub- 
scriptions. 


Treasurer 
fa  compa- 
ny may  ad- 
mit new 
adventur- 
ers 


fused  and  neglected,  or  shall  refuse  and  neglect,  to  bring 
in  his  or  their  adventure,  by  word  or  writing  promised, 
within  six  months  after  the  same  shall  be  so  payable  and 
due. 

IX.  And  whereas  the  failing  and  not  payment  of  such 
monies,  as  have  been  promised  in  adventure  for  the  ad- 
vancement of  the  said  plantation,  hath  been  often  by  ex- 
perience found,  to  be  dangerous  and  prejudicial  to  the 
same,  and  much  to  have  hindered  the  progress  and  pro- 
ceeding of  the  said  plantation,  and  for  that  it  seemeth  un- 
to us  a  thing  reasonable,  that  such  persons,  as  by  their 
hand  writing  have  engaged  themselves  for  the  payment 
of  their  adventures,  and  afterwards  neglecting  their  faith 
and  promise,  should  be  compelled  to  make  good  and  keep 
the  same  ;  therefore  our  will  and  pleasure  is,  that  in  any 
suitor  suits,  commenced  or  to  be  commenced,  in  any  of  our 
courts  at  Westminster,  or  elsewhere,  by  the  said  treasurer 
and  company,  or  otherwise,  against  any  such  persons, 
that  our  judges  for  the  time  being,  both  in  our  court  of 
chancery,  and  at  the  common  pleas,  do  favour  and  further 
the  said  suits,  so  far  forth  as  law  and  equity  will,  in  any 
wise,  further  and  permit. 

X.  And  we  do,  for  us,  our  heirs,  and  successors,  fur- 
ther give  and  grant  to  the  said  treasurer  and  company,  or 
their  successors,  for  ever,  that  they,  the  said  treasurer 
and  company,  or  the  greater  part  of  them,  for  the  time 
being,  so  in  a  full  and  general  court  assembled,  as  afore- 
said, shall  and  may,  from  time  to  time,  and  at  all  times 
for  ever  hereafter,  elect,  choose,  and  admit  into  their 
company  and  society,  any  person  or  persons,  as  well  stran- 
gers* and  aliens,  born  in  any  part  beyond  the  seas  where 
soever,  being  in  amity  with  us,  as  our  natural  leige  sub- 
jects, born  in  any  our  realms,  and  dominions ;  and  that 
all  such  persons,  so  elected,  chosen  and  admitted  to  be  of 
the  said  company,  as  aforesaid,  shall  thereupon  betaken, 
reputed,  and  held,  and  shall  be,  free  members  of  the  said 
company,  and  shall  have,  hold,  and  enjoy,  all  and  singu- 
lar freedoms,  liberties,  franchises,  privileges,  immunities, 
benefits,  profits  and  commodities,  whatsoever,  to  the  said 
company  in  any  sort  belonging  or  appertaining,  as  fully, 
freely,  and  amply,  as  any  other  adventurers,  now  being, 
or  which  hereafter  at  any  time  d  ill-disposed  persons,  both  sail- 
company,  ors  soldiers,  artificers,  husbandmen,  labourers,  and 
&.of  mis-  others,  having  received  wages,  *  apparel,  and  other  en- 
tations  re-  tertainment,  from  the  said  company,  or  having  contracted 
specting  it.  and  agreed  with  the  said  company,  to  go,  or  to  serve,  or 
to  be  imployed  in  the  said  plantation  of  the  said  first  co- 
iony  in  Virginia,  have  afterwards  either  withdrawn,  hid 
or  concealed  themselves,  or  have  refused  to  go  thither, 
after  they  have  been  so  entertained  and  agreed  withal  ; 
and  that  divers  and  sundry  persons  also,  which  have  been 
sent  and  employed  in  the  said  plantation  of  the  said  first 
colony  in  Virginia,  at  and  upon  the  charge  of  the  said 
company,  and  having  there  misbehaved  themselves,  by 
mutinies,  sedition,  or  other  notorious  misdemeanors,  or 
having  been  employed  or  sent  abroad,  by  the  governor  of 
Virginia  or  his  deputy,  with  some  ship  or  pinnace,  for 
our  provision  of  the  said  colony,  or  for  some  discovery, 
or  other  business  and  affairs,  concerning  the  same,  have 
from  thence  most  treacherously,  either  come  back  again 
and  returned  unto  our  realm  of  England,  by  stealth,  or 
without  licence  of  our  governor  of  our  said  colony  in  Vir- 
ginia for  the  time  being,  or  have  been  sent  hither,  as  mis- 
doers  and  offenders  ;  and  that  man}7  also  of  those  persons, 
after  their  return  from  thence,  having  been  questioned  by 
our  said  council  here,  for  such  their  misbehaviors  and 
offences,  by  their  insolent  and  contemptuous  carriage  in 
the  presence  of  our  said  council,  have  shewed  little  re- 
spect and  reverence,  either  to  the  place,  or  authority,  in 
which  we  have  placed  and  appointed  them  ;  and  others, 
for  the  colouring  of  their  lewdness   and  misdemeanor* 

C  I  "  I      itliei 


■iA   char- 


ANCIENT  CHARTERS.  10? 

committed  in  Virginia,  have  endeavored,  by  most  vile  and  161 1-2. 
slanderous  reports,  made  and  divulged,  as  well  of  the  ,, 

ciT-      ■    ■  i  r.u  .         i       l   .       March  l1.'. 

country  of  Virginia,  as  also  ot  the  government  arid  estate 

of  the  said  plantation  and  colony,  as  much  as  in  them  lay,  9ih  James 
to  bring  the  said  voyage  and  plantation  into  disgrace  and        lst- 
contempt;  by  means  whereof,  not  only  the  adventurers 
and  planters,  already  engaged  in  the  said  plantation,  ter*&c^ 
have  been  exceedingly  abused  and  hindered,  and  a  great 
number  of  other  our  loving  and  well  disposed  subjects, 
otherwise  well  affected,  and  enchned  to  join  and  adven- 
ture in  so  noble,  christian,  and  worthy  an  action,  ha 
been  discouraged  from  the  same,  but  also  the  utter  over- 
throw and  ruin  of  the  said  enterprise  hath  been  greatly 
endangered,  which  cannot  miscarry  without  some  disho- 
nour to  us  and  our  kingdom  ; 

XV.  Now,  forasmuch  as  it  appeareth  unto  us,  that 
these  insolences,  misdemeanors,  and  abuses,  not  to  be 
tolerated  in  any  civil  government,  have,  for  the  most  part, 
grown  and  proceeded,  in  regard  our  said  council  have  not 
any  direct  power  and  authority,  by  any  express  words 
in  our  former  letters  patents,  to  correct  and  chastise  such 
offenders;  we  therefore,  for  the  more  speedy  reformation 
of  so  great  and  enormous  abuses  and  misdemeanor  . 
heretofore  practised  and  committed,  and  for  the  prevent- 
ing of  the  like  hereafter,  do,  by  these  presents,  for  us,  our 
heirs,  and  successors,  give  and  grant  to  the  said  treasur- 
er and  company,  and  their  successors,  for  ever,  that  it 
shall  and  may  be  lawful  for  our  said  council  for  the  said 
first  colony  in  Virginia,  or  any  two  of  them  (whereof  the 
said  treasurer,  or  his  deputy,  for  the  time  being,  to  be  al- 
ways one)  by  warrant  under  their  hands,  to  send  for,  or 
to  cause  to  be  apprehended,  all  and  every  .such  person,  Offenders 
and  persons,  who  shall  be  noted>  or  accused,  or  found,  at  labole  cas. 
any  lime  or  times  hereafter,  to  offend,  or  misbehave  them-  es,  how 
selves,  in  any  the  offences  before  mentioned  and  express-  0PPrehen- 
ed;  and  upon  the  examination  of  any  such  onender  or  ot-  punished. 
fenders,  and  just  proof  made  by  oath,  taken  before  the 
said  council,  of  any  such  notorious  misdemeanors  by 
them  committed,  as  aforesaid  ;  and  also  upon  any  inso- 
lent and  contemptuous,  or  indecent  carriage,  and  misbe- 
haviour, to  or  against  our  said  council,  shewed  or  used 
by  any  such  person  or  persons,  so  called,  convented,  and 
appearing  before  them,  as  aforesaid;  that  in  all  such 
.  they,  our  said  council,  or  any  two  of  them,  for  the 
time  being,  shall  and  may  have  full  power  and  authority, 


r  CHARTERS. 

1611-2.    either  here  to  bind  them  over  with  good  sureties  lor  then 

good  behaviour,  and  further  therein  to  proceed,  to  all  in- 
Alarch  12.   f   '•„  ,  '  -t-  ,  ,.     f   ,.,  '  ... 

tents  and  purposes,  as  it  is  used,  in  other  like  cases,  witn- 

9th  James  in  our  realm  of  England  ;    or  else,  at  their  discretion  to 

lst-        remand  and  send  them  back,  the  said  offenders,  or  any  of 

V^7^T^    them,  unto  the  said  colony  in   Virginia,  there  to  be  pro- 

ter,  &c.        ceeded  against  and   punished,  as  the  governor,  deputy, 

or  council  there,  for  the  time  being,  shall  think  meet;  or 

otherwise  according  to  such  laws  and  ordinances,  as  are 

and  shall  be  in  use  there,  for  the  well  ordering  and  good 

government  of  the  said  colony. 

Lotteries  XVI,  And  for  the  more  effectual  advancing  of  the  said 

«i  for' the  plantation,  we  do  further,  for  us.  our  heirs,  and  succes- 
benrfit  of  sors,  of  our  especial  grace  and  favour,  by  virtue  of  our 
the  colony,  prerogative  royal,  and  by  the  assent  and  consent  of  the 
Lords  and  others  of  our  privy  council,  give  and  grant 
unto  the  said  treasurer  and  company,  full  power  and  au- 
thority, free  leave,  liberty,  and  licence,  to  set  forth,  erect, 
and  publish,  one  or  more  lottery  or  lotteries,  to  have 
continuance, and  to  endure  and  be  held,  for  thespace  of 
our  whole  year,  next  after  the  opening  of  the  same;  and 
after  the  end  and  expiration  of  the  said  term,  the  said 
lottery  or  lotteries  to  continue  and  be  further  kept,  dur- 
ing our  will  and  pleasure  only,  and  not  otherwise.  And 
yet  nevertheless,  we  are  contented  and  pleased  for  the 
good  and  welfare  of  the  said  plantation,  that  the  said 
treasurer  and  company  shall,  for  the  dispatch  and  finish- 
ing of  the  said  lottery  or  lotteries,  have  six  months  warn- 
ing after  the  said  year  ended,  before  our  will  and  plea- 
sure shall,  for  and  on  that  behalf,  be  construed,  deemed, 
and  adjudged,  to  be  in  any  wise  altered  and  determined. 

Where  XVII.  And  our  further  will  and  pleasure  is,  that  the 

said  lottery  and  lotteries  shall  and  may  be  opened  and 
held,  within  our  city  of  London,  or  in  any  other  city  or 
town,  or  elsewhere,  within  this  our  realm  of  England, 
with  such  prizes,  articles,  conditions,  and  limitations,  as 
to  them,  the  said  treasurer  and  company,  as  their  dis- 
cretion shall  seem  convenient : 

Treasurer        XVII I.  And  that  it  shall  and  may  be  lawful,  to  and 

and  coin-       .         .  .  ,  ,  J        ,  '    , 

pany  may    I0r  the  said  treasurer  and  company,  to  elect  and  choose 
appoint  of-  receivers,  auditors,  surveyors,  commissioners,    or   any 
?n'0(       other  officers,  whatsoever,  at  their  will  and  pleasure,  for  the 
belter  marshalling,  disposing,  guiding,  and  governing 


1st. 


ANCIENT  CHARTERS.  109 

die  said  lottery  and  lotteries  ;  and  that  it  shall  likewise  be    16 11-2. 
lawful,  to  and  for  the  said  treasurer  and  any  two  of  the 
-aid  council,  to  minister  to  all  and  every  such  person  so 
elected    and  chosen   for    officers,    as    aforesaid,  one   or  9th  James 
more  oaths,  for  their  good  behaviour,  just  and  true  deal- 
ing, in  and  about  the  said  lottery  or  lotteries,  to  the  in- 
tent and  purpose,  that  none  of  our  loving  subjects,  put-  the  iottc. 
ting,  in  their  names,  or  otherwise  adventuring  in  the  said   rics,  and 
general  lottery  or  lotteries,  may  be,  in  any  wise,  defraud-  JjJjJ'g"!?** 
edand  deceived  of  their  said  monies,  or  evil  and  indirect-  them. 
Iv  dealt  withal  in  their  said  adventures. 

XIX.  And  we  further  grant  in  manner  and  form  afore-  M        ,,  % 
said,  that  it  shall  and  may  be  lawful,  to  and  for  the  said   lishthe 
treasurer  and  company,  under  the  seal  of  the  said  council  schemes 
for  the  plantation,  to  publish,  or  to  cause  and  procure  to  be  °otteriec 
published,  by  proclamation  or  otherwise  (the  said  procla- 
mation, to  be  made  in  their  name,  by  virtue  of  these  pre- 
sents) the  said  lottery  or  lotteries  in  all  cities,  towns,  bo- 
roughs, and  other  places  within  our 

said  realm  of  England ;  and  we  will  and  command  all 
f  mayors,  justices  of  peace,  sheriffs,  bailiffs,  constables, 
and  other  officers  and  loving  subjects,  whatsoever,  that, 
id  no  wise,  they  hinder  or  delay  the  progress  and  proceed- 
ings of  the  said  lottery  or  lotteries,  but  be  therein  touch- 
ing the  premises,  aiding  and  assisting,  by  all  honest  good 
and  lawful  means  and  endeavours. 

XX.  And  further  our  will  and  pleasure  is,  that  in  allques-  £^,7°' 
lions,  and  doubts,  that  shall  arise,  upon  any  difficulty  J  of  charters 
construction  or  interpretation  of  any  thing  contained  in 

these,  or  any  other  our  former  letters  patents,  the  same 
shall  be  taken  and  interpreted,  in  most  ample  and  benefi- 
cial manner  for  the  said  treasurer  and  company,  and  their 
'uccessors,  for  ever,  and  every  member  thereof. 

XXI.  And  lastly,  we  do  by  these  presents,  ratify  and  *  oxv™*les 
confirm  unto  the  said  treasurer  and  company,  and  their   confirmed. 
successors,  for  ever,  all  and  all  manner  of  privileges,  fran- 

hises,  liberties,  immmunities,  preheminences,  profits  and 
commodities,  whatsoever,  granted  unto  them  in  any 
our  former  letters  patents,  and  not  in  these  presents  re- 
cked, altered,  changed,  or  abridged,  although  express 
mention  of  the  true  yearly  value  or  certainty  of  the  pre- 
es,  or  any  of  them,  or  of  any  other  gift  or  grant,  by  us 

BVtM  MS 


110 


ANCIENT  CHARTERS. 


1611-2.   or  any  of  our  progenitors  or  predecessors,  to  the  aforesaid 
,.     ,    ,     treasurer  and  company  heretofore  made,  in  these  presents 

March  12.     .  ,  ..  i«  •   • 

is  not  made ;  or  any  statute,   act,   ordinance,  provision, 
9th  James   proclamation,  or  restraint,  to  the  contrary  thereof  hereto- 
fore made,    ordained,  or  provided,  or  any  other  matter, 
cause,  or  thing,  whatsoever,  to  the  contrary,  in  any  wise, 


1st. 


3d  Char 
ter,  &c. 


notwithstanding. 


In  witness  whereof  we  have  caused  these  our  letters 
to  be  made  patents.  Witness  ourself,  at  Westminster, 
the  twelfth  day  of  March,  in  the  ninth  year  of  our  reign 
of  England,  France,  and  Ireland,  and  of  Scotland  the 
five  and  fortieth. 


Form  of 
govern- 
ment for 
the  first 
colony  of 
Virginia. 


Two  su- 
preme 
councils. 


An  Ordinance  and  Constitution  of  the  Treasurer  Coun- 
cil, and  Company  in  England,  for  a  Council  of  State 
and  General  Assembly. 

(Dated  July  24,  1621.—  StitVs  Appendix,  M.  4.) 

I.  TO  all  people,  to  whom  these  presents  shall  come, 
be  seen,  or  heard,  the  treasurer,  council,  and  company 
of  adventurers  and  planters  for  the  city  of  London  for 
the  first  colony  of  Virginia,  send  greeting.  Know  ye, 
that  we,  the  said  treasurer,  council,  and  company,  taking 
into  our  careful  consideration  the  present  state  of  the  said 
colony  of  Virginia,  and  intending  by  the  divine  assist- 
ance, to  settle  such  a  form  of  government  there,  as  may 
be  to  the  greatest  benefit  and  comfort  of  the  people,  and 
whereby  all  injustice,  grievances,  and  oppression  may  be 
prevented  and  kept  off  as  much  as  possible,  from  the  said 
colony,  have  thought  fit  to  make  our  entrance,  by  order- 
ing and  establishing  such  supreme  councils,  as  may  not 
only  be  assisting  to  the  governor  for  the  time  being,  in 
the  administration  of  justice,  and  the  executing  of  other 
duties  to  this  office  belonging,  but  also,  by  their  vigilant 
care  and  prudence,  may  provide,  as  well  for  a  remedy  of 
all  inconveniences,  growing  from  time  to  time,  as  also 
for  advancing  of  increase,  strength,  stability,  and  pros- 
perity of  the  said  colony  : 

II.  We  therefore,  the  said  treasurer,  council,  and  coni- 
pan}',  *by  authority  directed  to  us  from  his  majesty  im- 

*  Vide  section  XIV.  and  XXIM    <>r  (tic  second  charter,  and  section 
VIJT.  of  the  third 


ANCIENT  CHARTERS  III 

tier  the  great  seal,  upon  mature  deliberation,  do  hereby     1621, 
order  and  declare,  that,  from  hence  forward,  there  shall  be 
two  supreme  councils  in  Virginia,  for  the  better  govern-      u  y 
meat  of  the  said  colony  aforesaid. 


Council  of 
stale. 


nt» 


III.  The  one  of  which  councils,  to  be  called  the  coun- 
cil of  state,  (and  whose  office  shall  chiefly  be  assisting, 
with  their  care,  advice,  and  circumspection,  to  the 
said  governor)  shall  be  chosen,  uominated,  placed,  and 
displaced,  from  time  to  time,  by  us  the  said  treasurer, 
council  and  company,  and  our  successors  :  which  council 
of  state  shall  consist,  for  the  present  only  of  these  persons, 
as  are  here  inserted ,  viz.  sir  Francis  Wyatt,  *  governor  of  Th^" 
Virginia,  captain  Francis  West,  sir  George  Yeardley, 
knight,  sir  William  Neuce,  knight,  marshal  of  Virginia, 
Mr.  George  Sandys,  treasurer,  Mr.  George  f  Thorpe,  de- 
puty of  the  college,  captain  Thomas  Neuce,  deputy  for  the 
company,  Mr.  Powlet,  Mr.  Leech,  captain  Nathaniel  Pow- 
el,  Mr.  Christopher  Davidson,  secretary,  Doctor  Potts, 
physician  to  the  company,  Mr.  Roger  Smith,  Mr.  John 
Berkeley,  Mr.  John  Roife,  Mr.  Ralph  Hamer,  Mr.  John 
t  Pountis,  Mr.  Michael  Lapworth,  Mr.  Harwood,  Mr. 
Samuel  Macock.  Which  said  counsellors  and  council  and  autho- 
we  earnestly  pray  and  desire,  and  in  his  majesty's  name 
strictly  charge  and  command,  that  (all  factions,  partiali- 
ties, and  sinister  respect  laid  aside)  they  bend  their  care 
and  endeavours  to  assist  the  said  governor  j  first  and 
principally,  in  the  advancement  of  the  honour  and  service 
of  God,  and  the  enlargement  of  his  kingdom  against  the 
heathen  people;  and  next,  in  erecting  of  the  said  colony 
in  due  obedience  to  his  majesty,  and  all  lawful  authority 
from  his  majesty's  directions  ;  and  lastly,  in  maintaining 
the  said  people  in  justice  and  christian  conversation 
amongst  themselves,  and  in  strength  and  ability  to  with- 
nd  their  enemies.  And  this  council,  to  be  always,  or 
for  the  most  part,  residing  about  or  near  the  gover- 
nor. 


*  It  is  to  be  noted,  that  the  governor  is  always  inserted  in  the  old  com 
missions,  as  a  part,  and  the  head  of  the  council  of  state. 

.3.  Thorne  ;  but  as  I  am  perfectly  well  acquainted  with  these  names 
.-Hid  persons,  by  perusing  the  ancient  records,  I  shnll  take  the  liberty  o- 
correcting  the  erroi  ber-- — Sitfft 

MS.  Downtut 


112 


Ai\CIENT  CHARTERS. 


1621. 

July  24th. 


The  other 
council  to 
be  called 
the  general 
assembly, 
how  cho- 
sen. 


Their  duty. 


;N'o  law  to 
be  obliga- 
tory till 
ratified  in 
a  general 
quarter 
court  in 
England. 


IV.  The  other  council,  more  generally  to  be  called  fay 
the  governor,  once  yearly,  and  no  *  ofteuer,  but  for  j-  very 
extraordinary  and  important  occasions,  shall  consist  J  for 
the  present,  of  the  said  council  of  state,  and  of  two  bur- 
gesses out  of  every  town,  hundred,  or  other  particular 
plantation,  to  be  respectively  chosen  by  the  inhabitants : 
which  council  shall  be  called  The  General  Assembly, 
wherein  (as  also  in  the  said  council  of  state)  all  matters 
shall  be  decided,  determined,  and  ordered  by  the  greater 
part  of  the  voices  then  present ;  reserving  to  the  governor 
always  a  negative  voice.  And  this  general  assembly  shall 
have  free  power,  to  treat,  consult,  and  conclude,  as  well 
of  all  emergent  occasions  concerning  the  pubhck  weal  of 
the  said  colony  and  every  part  thereof,  as  also  to  make, 
ordain,  and  enact  such  general  laws  and  orders,  for  the 
behoof  of  the  said  colony,  and  the  good  government  there- 
of, as  shall,  from  time  to  time,  appear  necessary  or  re- 
quisite ; 

V.  Whereas  in  all  other  things,  we  require  the  said 
general  asembly,  as  also  the  said  council  of  state,  to  imi- 
tate and  follow  the  policy  of  the  form  of  government,  laws, 
customs,  and  manner  of  trial,  and  other  administration  of 
justice,  used  in  the  realm  of  England,  as  near  as  may  be 
even  as  ourselves,  by  his  majesty's  letters  patent,  are  re- 
quired. 

VI.  Provided,  that  no  law  or  ordinance,  made  in  the 
said  general  assembly,  shall  be  or  continue  in  force  or  va- 
lidity, unless  the  same  shall  be  solemnly  ratified  and  con- 
firmed, in  a  general  quarter  court  of  the  said  ^  company 
here  in  England,  and  so  ratified,  be  returned  to  them  un- 
der our  seal ;  it  being  our  intent  to  afford  the  like  mea- 
sure also  unto  the  said  colony,  that  after  the  government 
of  the  said  colony  shall  once  have  been  well  framed,  and 
settled  accordingly,  which  is  to  be  done  by  us,  as  by  autho- 
rity derived  from  his  majesty,  and  the  same  shall  have 
been  so  by  us  declared,  no  orders  of  court  afterwards, 
shall   bind  the  said  colony,  unless  they  be  ratified  in 

J  MS.  officer. 

i  MS.  very  and  extraordinary  important ;  which  likewise  makes  sense; 
taking  extraordinary  adverbinlh. 

MS.  for  prescn* 

■    MS  Court 


ANCIENT  CHARTERS.  118 

like  manner    in    the    general    assemblies.       In  witness  1621. 
whereof  we  have  hereunto  set  our  common  seal  the  24th 

of  July,  1621,  and  in  the  year  of  the  reign  of  our  sove-  Jll,y  24'h 

reign  lord,  James,  king  of  England,  See.  the  ****  and  —    James 

»f  Scotland  the  ****  is'- 


COMMISSION 


TO 


SIR  FRANCIS  WYATT,  &c. 


§  toman/  of  the  ORDINANCE  and  CONSTITUTION 
oj  the  Treasurer,  Council  and  Company  in  England,  for 
a  C  nmril  of  State,  and  another  Council  to  be  called  the 
GENERAL  ASSEMBLY  in  Virginia,  contained  in 
a  Commission  to  Sir  Francis  Wyatt,  (the  first  Governor 
under  that  Ordinance  and  Constitution.)  and  his  Connal. 

(Fiom  Ancient  Records,  Vol.  3,  containing  Charters,  Com- 
missions, $c) 

THE  TREASURER  and  COMPANY'S    Commis-     Commi*. 
sion   to   Sir   Francis    Wuatt,    Governor,    and    Council,  5Ion  1o  S" 
which  said  council  are  to  assist  the  governor  in  the  ad-   Wyatt,  &c 
ministration  of  justice,  to  advance  Christianity  among  In- 
dians, to  erect  the  colony  in  obedience  to  his  majesty  and 
in  maintaining  the  people  injustice  and  christian  conver- 
sation, and  strengthening  them  against  enemies.  The  said 
governor,  council,  and  two  burgesses  out  of  every  town, 
hundred  or  plantation,  to  be  chosen  by  the  inhabitants  to 
make  up  a  general  assembly,  who  are  to  decide  all  matters 
by  the  greatest  number  of  voices;  but  the  governor  is  to 
have  a  negative  voice,  to  have  power  to  make  orders  and 
acts  necessary,  wherein  they  are  to  imitate  the  policy  of 
the  form  of  government,  laws,  customs,  manner  of  tryal, 
and  other  administration  of  justice  used  in  England,  as 

P 


114 


COMMISSION  TO  SIR  FRANCIS  WYATT,  &c. 


1621.  the  company  are  required  by  their  letters  patents.     No 

July  ii4th.  law  to  continue  or  be  of  force  till  ratified    by  a   quarter 

7th  Jamos  court  to  be  held  in  England,  and  returned  under  seal. — 

lst-  After  the  colony  is  well  framed  and  settled,  no  order  of 

^r^**"  quarter  court  in  England  shall  bind   till   ratified   bv  the 

sion  to  Sir  general  assembly. 

£*•'?  Dated  24th  July,  1621. 

VVvatt,  *" 
Sic 


INSTRUCTIONS 


TO 


GOVERNOR  WYATT. 


Instmc-  BY  instructions  dated  24th  July,  1621:  To  keep  up 

turns  to  Sir  religion  of  the  church  of  England  as  near  as  may  be; — 

Wyatt,  &.c    to  De  obedient  to  the  king  and  do  justice  after  the  form 

of  the  laws  of  England;  and   not  to  injure  the  natives; 

.  and  to  forget  old  quarrels  now  buried  : 

To  be  industrious,  and  suppress  drunkenness,  gaming, 
and  excess  in  cloaths;  not  to  permit  any  but  the  council 
and  heads  of  hundreds  to  wear  gold  in  their  cloaths,  or  to 
wear  silk  till  they  make  it  themselves  : 

Not  to  offend  any  foreign  princes;  to  punish  piracies; 
to  build  fortresses  and  block- houses  at  the  mouths  of  the 
rivers  : 

To  use  meons  to  convert  the  heathens,  viz.  to  converse 
with  some;  each  town  to  teach  some  children  fit  for  the 
college  intended  to  be  built : 

After  Sir  George  Yeardley  has' gathered  the  present 
year's  crop,  he  is  to  deliver  to  Sir  Francis  Wyatt,  the 
hundred  tenants  belonging  to  governor's  place  ;  Yeard- 
ley's  government  to  expire  the  ISih  November  next,  and 
then  Wyatt  to  be  published  governor  ;  to  swear  the  coun- 
cil; 

George  Sandis  appointed  treasurer,  and  he  is  to  put  in 
execution  all  orders  of  court  about  staple  commodities; 


INSTRUCTIONS  TO  SIR  FRANCIS  WYATT,  &c.  115 

to  whom  is  allotted  fifteen  hundred  acres  and  fifty  ten-      1621. 
ants.     To  the   marshall   Sir  William   Newce   the  same. 
To  company's  deputy  the  same.     To  the  physician  five  Ju'y  24th 
hundred  acres  and  twenty  tenants;  and  the  same  to  the  —^james 
secretary  : 

To  review  the  commissions  to  Sir  George  Yeardley, 
governor,  and  the  council,  dated  18th  November,  1618, 
for  dividing  the  colony  into  cities,  boroughs,  &c.  and  to 
observe  all  former  instructions  (a  copy  whereof  was  sent) 
if  they  did  not  contradict  the  present ;  and  all  orders  of 
court  (made  in  England  :) 

To  make  a  catalogue  of  the  people  in  every  plantation, 
and  their  conditions;  and  of  deaths,  marriages  and  chris- 
tenings : 

To  take  care  of  dead  persons'  estates  for  the  right 
owners  ;  and  keep  a  list  of  all  cattle,  and  cause  the  se- 
cretary to  return  copies  of  the  premises  once  a  year: 

To  take  care  of  every  plantation  upon  the  death  of  their 
chief;  not  to  plant  above  one  hundred  pounds  of  tobac- 
co per  head  ;  to  sow  great  quantities  of  corn  for  their 
own  use,  and  to  support  the  multitudes  to  be  sent  yearly ; 
to  inclose  lands;  to  keep  cows,  swine,  poultry,  &c.  and 
particularly  kyne,  which  are  not  to  be  killed  yet: 

Next  to  corn,  plant  mulbury  trees,  and  make  silk,  and 
take  care  of  the  French  men  and  others  sent  about  that 
work;  to  try  silk  grass;  to  plant  abundance  of  vines, 
and  take  care  of  the  vignerors  sent : 

To  put  prentices  to  trades,  and  not  let  them  forsake 
their  trades  for  planting  tobacco,  or  any  such  useless 
commodity  : 

To  take  care  of  the  Dutch  sent  to  build  saw-mills,  and 
seat  them  at  the  Falls,  that  they  may  bring  their  timber 
by  the  current  of  the  water  : 

To  build  water-mills*  arid  block-houses  in  every  plan 

'ation  : 

That  all  contracts  in  England  or  Virginia  be  perform 
tJ.  and  the  brf  aches  punished  according  to  justice  : 


116  INSTRUCTIONS  TO  SIR  FRANCIS  WYATT,  fee 

\  1621.  Tenants  not  to  be  inticednway  ;  to  take  ease  of  those 

sent  about  an  iron  work,  and  especially  Mr.  John  Berke- 

uy         "  ley,  that  they  dont  miscarry  again,  this   being  the  great- 

—    James  est  hope  and  expectation  oi"  the  colonies. 
1st. 

To  make  salt,  pitch,  tar,  soap,  ashes,  &c.  so  often  re- 
commended, and  for  which  materials  had  been  sent;  to 
make  oyl  of  walnuts,  and  employ  apothecaries  in  distilling 
lees  of  beer,  and  searching  aiter  minerals,  dyes,  gums, 
and  drugs,  &c.  and  send  small  quantities  home: 

To  make  small  quantity  of  tobacco,and  that  very  good; 
that  the  houses  appointed  for  the  reception  of  new  co- 
mers and  public  storehouses  be  built,  kept  clean,  &c.  to 
send  the  state  of  affairs  quarterly,  and  a  duplicate  next 
shipping. 

To  take  care  oi  captain  William  Norton,  and  certain 
Italians  sent  to  set  up  a  glass  house. 

A  copy  of  a  treatise  of  the  plantation  business  and  ex- 
cellent observances  made  by  a  gentleman  of  capacity  is 
sent  to  lie  among  the  records,  and  recommended  to  the 
councillors  to  study. 

Mr.  William  Clayborne,  a  surveyor,  sent  to  survey  the 
planters  lands,  and  make  a  map  of  the  country  : 

Chief  officers  that  have  tenants  reprimanded  for  taking- 
fees;  but  require  that  the  clerks  have  fees  set  for  passes, 
warrants,  copies  of  orders,  &c. 

Governor  and  council  to  appoint  proper  times  for  ad- 
ministration of  justice  ;  and  provide  for  the  entertain- 
ment of  the  council  during  their  session,  to  be  together 
one  whole  month  about  state  affairs,  and  law  suits ;  to  re- 
cord plaints  of  consequence;  to  keep  a  register  of  thr 
acts  of  quarter  sessions,  and  send  home  copies  : 

If  a  governor  dies  the  major  part  of  council  to  choose 

one  of  themselves  within  fourteen  days  ;  but  if  voices  be 

liviclecl,  the  lieutenant  governor  shall  have  the  place;  and 

next  the  marshal!:  next  the  treasurer;  and  one  of  the 

v\vo  deputies  next : 

Governor  and  chief  officers  not  to  let  out  their  tenant* 
-^    isual. 


INSTRUCTIONS  TO  SIR  FRANCIS  WYATT,  &c.  1 11 

The  governor  only  to  summon  the  council,  and  sign  1621. 
warrants,  and  execute  or  give  authority  to  execute  coun- 

cil  orders,  except  in  cases  that  do  belong  to  the  marshall,  uy  " 

treasurer,  deputies,  Stc.  —  James 

1st. 

The  governor  to  have  absolute  authority  to  determine  s^ry**' 
and  punish  all  neglects,  and  contempts  of  authority,  ex- 
cept the  council,  who  are  to  be  tried  at  the  quarter  ses- 
sions and  censured.  Governor  to  have  but  the  casting 
voice  in  council  or  court,  but  in  the  assembly  a  negative 
voice. 

That  care  be  taken  that  there  be  no  engrossing  commo- 
dity, or  forestalling  the  market: 

All  servants  to  fare  alike  in  the  colony,  and  their  pu- 
nishment for  any  offences  is  to  serve  the  colony,  in  pub- 
lick  works : 

To  see  that  the  earl  of  Pembroke's  thirty  thousand 
acres  be  very  good  : 

To  make  discoveries  along  the  coast,  and  find  a  fishery 
between  James  River  and  Cape  Cod. 

As  to  raising  staple  commodities,  the  chief  officers  ought 
to  set  examples  and  to  aim  at  the  establishment  of  the  co- 
lony : 

And  lastly,  not  to  let  ships  stay  long,  and  to  freight 
them  with  walnut,  and  any  less  valuable  commodity. 

The  governor  administered  the  following  oath  to  the 
council. 

11  YOU  shall  swear  to  be  a  true  and  faithful  servant 
"  unto  the  king's  majesty,  as  one  of  his  council  for  Vir- 
"  ginia:  You  shall  in  all  things  to  be  moved,  treated,  and 
"  debated  in  that  council  concerning  Virginia  or  any  the 
"  territories  of  America,  between  the  degrees  of  thirty 
"  four  and  forty  five  from  the  equinoctial  line  northward, 
"or  the  trades  thereof,  faithfully  and  truly  declare  your 
u  mind  and  opinion,  according  to  your  heart  and  consci- 
ence;  and  shall  keep  secret  all  matters  committed  and 
K  revealed  to  you  concerning  the  same,  and  that  shall  be 
"  (mated  secretly  in  that  council,  or  this  council  of  Vir- 


i  18  INSTRUCTIONS  TO  SIR  FRANCIS  WYATT,  &c 

"  ginia,  or  the  more  part  of  them,  publication  shall  not  (a) 
"be  made  thereof;  And  of  all  matters  of  great  impor- 
"  tance,  or  difficulty,  before  you  resolve  thereupon,  you 
"  shall  make  his  majesty's  privy  council  acquainted  there- 
"  with,  and  follow  their  directions  therein:  You  shall  to 
"your  uttermost  bear  faith  and  allegiance  to  the  king's 
"  majesty,  his  heirs,  and  lawful  successors,  and  shall  as- 
"sist  and  defend  all  jurisdictions,  preheminences,  and  au- 
"thorities  granted  unto  his  majesty  and  annext  unto  the 
"crown  against  all  foreign  princes,  persons,  prelates  or 
"  potentates  whatsoever,  be  it  by  act  of  parliament  or 
"  otherwise:  and  generally, in  all  things,  you  shall  do  as  a 
"  faithful  and  true  servant  and  subject  ought  to  do.  So 
"  help  you  God  and  the  holy  contents  of  this  book." 

(a)  The  word  "  not"  inserted  by  the  editor.     It  rs  not  in  the  MP.  but  imall  "  c"  nearly  resembles  the  letter  "o"  with  a  horizontal  cross  near  the 
top; — the  small  " s"  is  exactly  like  the  small  round  Greek  sigma,  with  a 
circumflex  proceeding  from  the  top. 

"  This  whs  in  commemoration  of  the  escape  of  the  colony  from  entire 
extirpation  by  the  fatal  massacre  of  the  Indians  on  the  22d  of  March, 
■     Sae  Bark's  Hbt  vhfc.vol  1,p  24p. 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA. 


selves 
from  their 
Church. 


Penalty 
for  dispa- 
raging a 
minister. 


Ministers 

»o  he  satis- 
fied before 
any  tobac- 
vo  dispos- 
ed of. 


above fowre  months  in  the  year  shall  forfeit  his  whole, 
means  and  cure. 


That  whosoever  shall  disparage  a  minister  without 
bringing  sufficient  proofe  to  justify  his  reports  where- 
by the  mindes  of  his  parishioners  may  be  alienated 
from  him,  and  his  ministry  prove  the  less  effectual  by 
their  prejudication,  shall  not  only  pay  500lb.  waight 
of  tobacco  but  also  aske  the  minister  so  wronged 
forgiveness  publickly  in  the  congregation. 


That  no  man  dispose  of  any  of  his  tobacco  before 
?he  minister  be  satisfied,  upon  pain  of  forfeiture  dou- 
ble his  part  of  the  minister's  means,  and  one  man  of 
every  plantation  to  collect  his  means  out  of  the  first 
and  best  tobacco  and  corn. 


.Limitation 
of  the 
power  of 
the  Go- 
vernor as 
to  taxes  k. 
imposi- 
tions. 

Governor 
yot  to 
withdraw 
the  inha- 
bitants 
from  their 
labours 
for  his 
own  ser- 
vice. 


8, 


Certain 
©Id  plan- 
ters and 
their  pos- 
terity ex- 
empted 
from  mili- 
tary ser- 
vice 


9. 


That  the  Governor  shall  not  lay  any  taxes  or  ym- 
positions  upon  the  colony  their  lands  or  comodities 
other  way  than  by  the  authority  of  the  General  As- 
sembly,  to  bo  levyed  and  ymployed  as  the  said  As- 
sembly shall  appoynt. 


The  governor  shall  not  withdraw  the  inhabitants 
from  their  private  labors  to  any  service  of  his  own 
upon  any  colour  whatsoever  and  in  case  the  publick 
service  require  ymployments  of  many  hands  before 
the  holding  a  General  Assemblie  to  give  order  for 
the  same,  if)  that  case  the  levying  of  men  shall  be 
done  by  order  of  the  governor  and  whole  body  of  the 
counsell  and  that  in  such  sorte  as  to  be  least  bur- 
thensome  to  the  people  and  most  free  from  partiali- 


10. That  all  the  old  planters  that  were  here  before  or 
came  in  at  the  last  coming  of  sir  Thomas  Gates 
they  and  their  posterity  shall  be  exempted  from  their 
personal  service  to  the  warrsand  any  publick  charge 
(church  duties  excepted)  that  belong  particularly  to 
their  persons  (not  exempting  their  families)  excep' 
-uch  as  shall  be  ymployd  to  command  in  chief. 


.MARCH,  162o-4— 21st  JAMES  1st.  12-5 

1 1 .     That  no  burgesses  of  the  General  Assembly  shall  be    Burgesses 
arrested  during  the  time  of  the  assembly,  a  week  be-  {?."*j  eagr*d 
fore  and  a  week  after  upon  pain  of  the  creditors  for-  rests, 
feiture  of  his  debt  and  such  punishment  upon  the  of- 
ficer as  the  court  shall  award. 


12.     That  there  shall  be  courts  kept  once  a  month  in  the      Monthly 
corporations  of  Charles  City  and  Elizabeth  Citty  for  C0l,rts 
the  decyding  of  suits  and  controversies  not  exceeding 
the  value  of  one  hundred  pounds  of  tobacco  and  for      jurisdic 
punishing  of  petty   offences,  that  the  commanders  of  tion. 
the  places  and  such  others  as  the  governor  and  coun- 
cil shall  appoint  by  commission  shall  be  the  judges,      Right  of 
with  reservation  of  apeal  after  sentence  to  the  gover-  aPPeal- 
nor  and  counsel!  and  whosoever  shall  appeal  yf  he  be 
there  cast  in  suit  shall  pay  duble  damages,  The  com- 
manders to  be  of  the  quorum  and  sentence  to  be  given 
by  the  major  parties. 


13.     That  every  privatt  planters  devident  shall  be  sur-  Lands  u» 

veyed  and  laid  out  in  several  and  the  bounds  recorded  b^  Sl,rve>'" 

by  the  survey ;  yf  there  be  any  pettie  differences  be-  bounds  re- 

twixt  neighbours  about  their  devidents  to  be  divided  corded. 

by  the  surveyor  if  of  much  importance  to  be  referred  governor0 

to  the  governor  and  counsell :   the  surveyor  to  have  and  conn- 

10  lbs.  of  tobacco  upon  every  hundred  acres.  al 


14.  For  the  encouragement  of  men  to  plant  store  of  Price  oi 
corne,  the  prise  shall  not  be  stinted,  but  it  shall  be  to  bc"imu 
free  for  everv  man  to  sell  it  as  deere  as  he  can.  ed 


15.     That  there  shall  be  in  every  parish  a  publick  gar-  Public 
nary  unto  which  there  shall  be  contributed  for  every  gnuiery 
planter  exceeding  the  adge  of  18  years   alive  at  the  livery0' 
crop   after   he   hath   been   heere  a  year  a  bushel!  of  parish, 
corne,  the  which  shall  be  disposed  for  the  publique 
uses  of  every  parish  by  the  major  part  of  the  freemen, 
the  remainder  yearly  to  be  taken  out  by  the  owners 
at  St.  Tho's  his  day  and  the  new  bushel!  to  be  putt  in 
'lie  roomf. 


126 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


Persons  to 
be  ap- 
pointed to 
see  that  a 
sufficiency 
of  corn  be 
planted. 


Trade  for 
corn  with 
the  sava- 
ges pro- 
hibited. 

Regula- 
tions  as  to 
planting 
vines  and 
mulberry 
trees. 


Proclama- 
tion 
against 
swearing 
and  drun- 
kenness 
confirmed, 
&c. 


16.  That  three  sufficient  men  of  every  parish  shall  be 
sworne  to  see  that  every  man  shall  plant  and  tende  suf- 
ficient of  corne  for  his  famity.  Those  men  that  have 
neglected  so  to  do  are  to  be  by  the  said  three  men  pre- 
sented to  be  censured  by  the  governor  and  counsell. 


17.     That  all  trade  for  corne  with   the  salvages  as  well 
publick  as  private  after  June  next  shall  be  prohibited. 


18. 


That  every  freeman  shall  fence  in  a  quarter  of  an 
acre  of  ground  before  Whitsuntide  next  to  make  a 
garden  for  planting  of  vines,  herbs,  roots,  &c.  sub- 
poena ten  pounds  of  tobacco  a  man,  but  that  no 
man  for  his  own  family  shall  be  tyed  to  fence  above 
an  acre  of  land  and  that  whosoever  hath  fenced  a 
garden  and  of  the  land  shall  be  paid 

for  it  by  the  owner  of  the  soyle ;  they  shall  also  plant 
Mulberry  trees. 


19 


The  proclamations  for  swearing  and  drunkenness 
sett  out  by  the  governor  and  counsell  are  confirmed 
by  this  Assembly ;  and  it  is  further  ordered  that  the 
churchwardens  shall  be  sworne  to  present  them  to 
the  commanders  of  every  plantation  and  that  the  for- 
feitures shall  be  collected  by  them  to  be  for  publique 
uses. 


Ships  not 
to  break 
bulk  till 
they  ar- 
rive at 
James 
City. 


20.     That  a  proclamation  be  read  aboard  every  ship  and 
afterwards  fixed  to  the  maste  of  such 
in,  prohibiting  them  to  break  boulke  or  make  privatt 
sales  of  any  commodity  until 

James  City,  without  special  order  from  the  governor 
and  counsell. 


Rates  of  21.     That  the  proclamation  of  the  rates  of  commodities 
be  still  in  force  and  that  there  be  some  men  in  every 


vies- 


plantation  to  censure  the  tobacco. 


Weights    22. 
and  mea- 
urei         ', 


That  there  be  no  weights  nor  measures  used  but  such 
as  shall  be  sealed  by  officers  appointed  for  that  purpose. 


MARCH,  1623-4— 21st  JAMES  1st.  121 

23.     That  every  dwelling  house  shall  be  pallixaded  in  tor  J***11™! 
defence  against  the  Indians.*  be  paiisa- 

doed: 


24.     That  no  man  go  or  send  abroad  without  a  sufficient  Precaution 

as   to  ar'" 
i»g  men 


mi j  as   to  arm- 

partie  will  armed. 


25.     That  men  go  not  to  worke  in  the  ground  without  The  samL 
their  arms  (and  a  centinell  upon  them.)  Inhabit- 


ants not  to 

absent 

themselves 


26.     That  the  inhabitants  go  not  aboard  ships  or  upon  to0  much 
any  other  occasions  in  such  numbers,  as  thereby  to  from  their 
weaken  and  endanger  the  plantations.  P'anta" 


27.     That  the  commander  of  every  plantation  take  care  ^^"o 
that  there  be  sufficient  of  powder  and  amunition  with-  p0wder 
in  the  plantation  under  his  command  and  their  pie-  a™*  arms 
ces  fixt  and  their  arms  compleate. 


28     That  there  be  dew  watch  kept  by  night. 


Watch. 


29.     That  no  commander  of  any  plantation  do  either  J£twJbc 
himselfe  or  suffer  others  to  spend  powder  unneccessa-  unnecessa 
vily  in  drinking  or  entertainments,  Stc.  riIy  srent 


m.     That  such  persons  of  quality  as  shall  be  founde  de-  qJai°tJ,de- 

linquent  in  their  duties  being  not  fitt  to  undegoe  cor-  linquents, 

poral  punishment  may  notwithstanding  be  ympri-  ^0™°' 

boned  at   the  discretione  of  the   commander  St  for  punish- 

irreater  offences  to  be  subject  to  a  ffine  inflicted  by  meat  to  be 

the  monthlic  court,  so  that  it  exceed  not  the  value  |,mpr'son' 
aforesaid. 


31.     That  every  man  that  hath  not  contributed  to  the 
finding  a  man  at  the  castell  shall  pay  for  himself  and 


Castle  du 
ties. 


i  his   and  lhcur  °f  t-n,s  plantation." 

(b)  In  all  the  public  papers  of  this  period  th^  first  settlement  of 
the  colony  is  computet!  from  the  year  1607  ;  from  the  arrival  of  the 
expedition  in  the  Chesapeake,  on  the  26th  of  April  in  that  year,  under 
the  command  of  JSewport,  6tc. 


COMMISSION 

APPOINTING    COMMISSIONERS  TO  HOLP 

MONTHLY  COURTS. 


Becitai 


Of  order  of 
court. 


•By  the  Governor  and  Captaine   Generall  of 

Virginia. 

"TO  all  to  whome  these  presents  shall  come,  I  John 
"Pott,  Esq.  Governor  and  Captain  Generall  of  Vir- 
t:  ginia,  send  greeting,  in  our  lord  God  everlasting. 
"  Whereas  for  the  greater  ease  of  the  inhabitants 
"  of  dyverse  parts  of  this  colony,  and  for  the  better 
"  conservation  of  the  peace,  and  due  execution  of 
"such  laws  and  orders  as  are  or  shall  bee  established 
"  for  the  government  of  the  people  and  inhabitants 
"  in  the  same, the:  Governor  and  Councell  have  thought 
"  fitt,  and  accordingly  appoynted  by  an  order  of 
"  cort  made  the  7th  daie  of  Marche  last  past,  that 
"  there  shall  be  monthly  corts  held  and  kepte  in 
"  some  of  the  more  remote  plantations  thereof;  Now 


FROM  1623  TO  1629.  1{JQ 

"  knowe  ye  that  according  to  the  said  order,  these 
;'  persons  whose  names  are  here  inserted,  are  for  the 
"  tyme  being  assigned  and  appoynted  to  be  the  pre- 
"  sent  commissioners  of  and  for  the  holding  and  keep-  Commissions 
"  ing  of  monthly  corts  within  the  corporation  of  Eliza-  '^'',t  y 
"  beth  Citty  and  the  partes  near  adioyning,  viz.  Capt. 
"  Thomas   Purfury,  Capt.   Edward    Waters,    Lieut. 
"  Thomas   Willoughby,    Lieut.    George  Tliomp^o'-. 
"  Mr.  Adam  Thoroughgood,   Mr.  Lyonell  Co* 
"  Mr.  William  Kempe  and  Mr.  John  Downman  ;  •         i  Q-'orum. 
"  sayd  comissioners,  or  any  three   of  them   v.  hi 
"  Capt.  Thomas  Purfury  or  Lieut.  Edward  Wbieis  to 
"  be  alwaies  one,  shall  have  power  and   authority  to 
::  heere   and  determine   all  such  suits  and  controvert 
■•  sies  between  party  and  party  as  exceede  not  the  va-  Jurisdiction 
"  lueof  one  hundred  pounds  of  tobacco,  especially  that 
"  they  take  into   theire  care  the  conservation  of  the 
"  peace,  the  quiet  government  and  safety  of  the  peo- 
"  pie  there  residing  or  being,  and  that  all  orders  and 
;t  proclamations  bee  kepte  and  observed  and  according 
"  to  the  same   to  inflicte  a  punishment   upon  all  de- 
;'  linquents  either  by  fine  or  otherwise  (such  offences 
"  only  excepted  as  concerne  the  taking  away  of  life  or 
"  member.)     Provided  alwaies,  that  it  shall  be  law-  Right  °f»p- 
"  ful  for  the  plaintiff  or  defendant  in  any  suit  before  pfi 
"  the  said  commissioners  depending,  to  appeall  to  the 
"  cort  at  James  Citty  there  holden   by  the  Governor 
"  and  Councill.     And  they  are  hereby  required   from 
"  tyme  to  tyme  to  keepe  recordes  of  all  judgments,   Rrrorris    William  Allen. 

plantation  ) 

flor  Jurden's  Journey — William  Popkton. 

flor  Chaplaines  Choice — Walter  Price. 

flor  Westover — Christopher  Woodward. 

flor  Flowerdieu*  Hundred — Anthony  Pagett. 

flor  James  Citty  1?''F.  „ 

J  (  Mr.  Kjugsmell. 

ffor  Paces  Paioes's     i  ^WilUara  **"*' 

(  John  bm\th. 

flor  the  other  side  of   (  Capt  John  West, 
the  water  \  Capt-  flellgate. 

flor  Pasbehay — Thomas  Bagwell. 

ffor  the  necke  of  land — Richard  Brewster. 

«•  L  *     '■     >  ti  (  Theodore  Moysee, 

ilor  Archer  s  Hope      j  rp,     .  j*    inint^ 

(^Zachary  Cripps. 

("Capt.  Nath'l  Basse, 
„    „.  ,      !  Richard  Bennett, 

ftorWarosquoyacke^  Robert  Savin, 

^Tho.  Jurdain. 

fforNuttmeggQuar-  £  William  Cole, 

I  William  Bentley. 


ter 


fforEliz:  Citty         


A  company 
of  man  to  be 
sent  to  Kisky- 
ackc  to  plant 


"  The  acts  of  this  session  am  not  numbered  ;  nor  are  (hey  separat- 
ed (ruin  each  other  by  any  mark  whatever.  They  appear  rather  like 
a  journal :  i  ontaioing  an  account  <>f  the  joint  deliberations  of  the  go- 
rernor,  council  and   b  For  the  conveniency  of  reference,  F 

have  divided  them  into  Alt,  for  reasons  explained  in  a  note  lo  the 
..  •-  ..>'  1623 


J4©  LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 

wboarpto  al|  that  should  bee  the  adventurers,  and  to  bee  there 
kod to 'them0  se:Urc'  '•>  the  1 5th  ot  November  next.  Whereuppon 
ana  their  voluntarily   the  Governor  offered  to  find  3  men. 

1,cirs-                                  Capt.  Mathewes  4 

Mr.  ffarrar  1 

Mr.  Thorowgood  4 

Mr.  English   -  2 

Mr.  il  lint  4 

Mr.  Rowlston  2 

Capt.  Basse  1 

Mr.  Mar  wood  1 

Mr.  Bennett  1 

Goodman  Tree  1 

Tho.  Si  rly  1 

Capt.  Petrce  2 

IT  was  ordered  they  should  have  shares  of  land  to 
them  and  their  heirs. 


ACT  II. 

« 

Commanders  r'li  ■  }        7  i  ,-    i  n 

of  plantations  ll  IS .  oriicrei'-  that  every  commander  ot  the  several! 
to  levy  a  force  plantations  appointed  by  commission  from  the  govern- 
to be  employed  0r  shall  have  power  and  authoritie  to  levy  a  partie  of 

against  the  In-  ri-ii-  ci  i  J        ' 

diaus.  men  out  o}   tne  inhabitants  of  that  place  soe  many  as 

may  well  be  spared  without  too  much  weakening  of 
the  plantations  and  to  imploy  those  men  against  the 
Indians,  when  they  shall  assault  us  neere  unto  our  ha- 
bitations, or  when  they  in  their  discretion  shall  deemc 
it  convenient  to  cleare  the  woods  and  the  parts  ncere 
adioyning  uhen  the  Indians  shall  bee  a  hunting  or 
when  they  have  any  certaine  knowledge  of  the  Indian's 

mnndercan-  aboad  in  those  Places-     And  if  there  shall  be  cause 

not  attend,  he  that  the  commander  in  person  can   not  attend  these 

must  appoint  services,  then  in  such  cases,  and  in  his  absence  hco  ie  re* 

d4i  i  -    j  *.        r  it  ,         "     ,  strained    from 

they  to  bee  exempted  from  all  taxes,  and  marches  planting tobac- 

for  that  yeare.     The  inaior  part  would   have  no  re-  cothelstyearj 

straint  made  to  new  comers.  ?'"  exen»Pt«d 

from  rnarch.es 
against  the  In- 
dians. 


ACT  V. 

IT  was  put  to  the  question  whether  for  this  yeare  there  The  planting 

should    be   an   ordinance    made   and    established    for  of  l0,)a,co  •' 

the  stinting  of  the  planting  of  tobacco.      To  this  the  "rtairmum 


!42  LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 

b«  h^  /  a",S  .°Pimon  °^t,ie  most  voices  was,  that  noe  persons  worke 
ing  the  ground,  which  are  all  to  be  thithable,  should 
plant  above  3000  plants  uppon  an  head. 

An  exception  is  made  where  the  familie  consisteth  of 
children  and  woemen  which  doe  not  worke  in  the 
ground,  and  they  to  plant  not  above  1000  plants  per 
pol.  In  case  any  family  shall  be  aggrieved  by  this  or- 
der consisting  of  some  nomber  of  woemen  and  chil- 
dren, It  is  thought  fitt  that  in  speciall  cases  the  Go- 
vernor and  Councell  to  order  them  a  further  propor- 
tion. 


ACT  VI. 

a4nTOen«e°n       THESE  charges  following  were  allowed  by  the 
law  General  Assembly,  viz  : 

Imprimis.  To  Mr.  Marshartt  for  16  carriadges  for 
ordinance,  there  is  allowed  for  his  account  of 
£.  20S  04s  02d.  fovvre  thowsand  five  hundred  weight 
of  tobacco,  soe  that  the  remainder  that  was  not  paid 
unto  him  last  yeare  shall  be  fully  paid  and  deliver- 
ed unto  him  this  yeare,  or  his  assignes,     lbs.     4500 

Item.  Six  barrells  of  powder,  bought  of  Capt. 

Crampton,  and  yet  unspent,  0900 

Item.  One  hhd.  of  wyne,  spent  in  the  march,     0255 

Item.  One  ancor  lost  in  the  march  out  of  Lieut. 

Thompson  his  boate,  0050 

ffor  shott  which  Sr.  George  Yeardley  bought 
of  Mr.  Mayhow  and  provision  to  sett  out  his 
ship,  0428 

ffor  300  of  fish  bought  of  Mr.  Menefie,  0090 

ffor  one  barrell  of  pease  spent  in  the  shipp,     0050 

To  Mr.  Claybournc  for  siiott  spent  in  the  marches 
in  Sr.  George  his  time,  and  this  yeare  1629,     0500 

ffor  one  hundred  of  shott  more,  bought  of  Mr. 
Barrington.  &  1*2  of  biscuite  for  Chickaho- 
miny,  0047 

For  Ct.  Poole's  entertainement  this  yeare,  1200 


OCTOBER,  1629 — 5th  CHARLES  1st.  143 

[The  lines  following  the  above,  are  so  obliterated 
as  not  to  be  legible  till  we  come  to  the  words  "  his 
le^g  which  hee  received  in  the  country's  service;"  from 
which  we  may  infer  that  the  above  item  is  on  account 
of  a  wound  received  by  Cant.  Poole.] 

[t  is  also  ordered  that  the  three  Indians  here  resid-  Certain  Is 
ing  shal  be  maintained  by  the  General  charge  of  the  (!irms  t0  br 

...  •/.  c  o  supported 

whole  colony. 

To  defray  all  die  charges  above  said  the  whole  As-  Poll  tax 
sembly  concluded  that  there  should  be  five  pounds  of 
tobacco  per  pol  levyed  through  the  colony. 

It  is  further  concluded  and  ordered  that  every  master   How  collector: 
of  a   family,   and  every  freeman  that   is   to   pay  five 
pounds  of  tobai  co  per  pol  as  aforesaid  for  the  defraying 
of  publique   charges,  shall  bring  the   same  ,unto   the 
Houses  of  the  Burgesses  of  the  plantations  within  two 
dayes  after  notice  thereof  given  unto  them.    And  if  any 
shall  faile  to  bring  in  the  same,  it  is  thought  fitt  that  by 
virtue  of  this  order  the  said  Burgesses  shall  have  pow-   Burgesses  ip 

ive  it  and  that  he  take  order  to  have  an   account  pay 
kept  of  the  same. 


ACT  VII. 

AT  this  time  the  matter  of  {fortification  was  taken  Fortificati 
into  consideration  and    there  was  longe  debate  had   ^^  soiyect 

considered 


out 


144  LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 

concerning  the  place  where  the  fforte  should  be  erected. 
Point  Comfort  Especially  Point  Comfort  was  spoken  of  and  was 
mosTeligible  thought  the  most  convenient  place,  but  the  great  and 
.situation.  many  difficultyes  therein,  and  the  want  of  means  and 

materials  for  effecting  thereof  doe  almost  make  it  im- 
possible  for  our  weake  abilityes  to  bring  to  perfection  : 
therefore  [the  lines  of  the  original  not  legible.] 
both  the  assistance  of  their  persons  and  estates  to  ac- 
complish so  good  a  worke  as  to  raise  fortifications 
which  will  be  both  a  safetie  and  reputation  unto  this 
colony. 


ACT  VIII. 

Penalties  tor  IT  is  ordered  that  there  bee  an  especial  I  care  taken 

not  repairing     by  aj]  commanders  and  others  tltat  the  people  doe  re- 

be^iitln-eci0      paire  to  their  churches  on  the  Saboth  day,  and  to  see 

that   the  penalty  of  one  pound  of  tobacco  for  every 

time  of  absence  and  50  pound  for  every  months  absence 

sett  downe  in  the  act  of  the  Generall  Assembly  1623, 

be  levyed  and  the  delinquents  to  pay  the  same,  as  alsoe 

Sabbath  day      to  see  thai  the  SabjSth  day  be  not  ordinarily  profaned 

not  to  be  pro-    by  workeing  in  any  iroplo)  ments  or  by  iournyeing  from 

place  to  place. 


ACT  IX. 

Who  to  pay  Jrf  fa  thought  fitt  that  all  those  that  worke  in  the 

ters.  ground  of  what  qualitie  or  condition  soever,  shall  pay 

tithes  to  the  ministers. 


EXTRACT 

From  the  Minutes  of  the  Judicial  proceedings 

of  the  Governor  and  Council*  of  Virginia. 


VFromthe  Ancient  Records  relating  to  Virginia,  Vol.  3. 

p.  215.] 

"  JULY  the  9th,  1630.— Dr  John  Pott,  late  Gover- 
li  nor,  indicted,  arraigned  and  found  guilty  of  steal- 
"  ing  cattle,  1 3jurors3  whereof  councellors.  This  day 
"  wholly  spent  in  pleading  ;  next  day,  in  unnecessa- 
"  ry  disputation  :  Pott  endeavouring  to  prove  Mr. 
"  Kingsmell    (one   of  the   witnesses  against   biro)  an 


"  That  the  Governor  and  Council  were  vested  with  judicial  powers, 
under  the  colonial  government,  is  a  historical  fact,  well  known,  without 
resorting  to  the  ancient  charters  to  support  it.  The  following  entry 
taken  from  some  loose  manuscript  sheets,  found  among  the  acts,  iscc.  of 
the  General  Assembly,  of  the  period  to  which  they  relate,  will  show 
how  their  courts  were  constituted,  and  the  mode  of  dying  business. 

'■  A  court  at  James  Citty  the  16th  Nov.  1027.' 

"  Capt.  ffrancis  West,  Esq.  Governor,  ik.c." 

"  Doct.  Pott,"  "  Mr.  Persey." 

««  Capt.  Smith,"  "  Mr.  Secretary," 

"  Capt.  Mathevves,"  «  Capt.  Tucker," 

"Mr.ffarrar." 

11  At  this  court  the  lady  Temperance  Ycardley,  came  and  did  fully 
and  absolutely  confirme  as  much  as  in  her  lay,  the  conveyance  made 
by  her  late  husband,  Sir  George  Yeardley,  Knt.  late  Governor,  deceas- 
ed, unto  Abraham  Persey,  Esq.  for  the  lands  of  Flowerdieu  Hundred, 
being  one  thousand  acres,  and  of  VVeanoake  on  the  opposite  side  of 
the  water,  bein«  2200  acres.  And  the  said  lady  Temperance  Yeard- 
ley, did  then  alltogether  absolutely  disclaime  and  release  unto  the  said 
Abraham  Persey,  all  her  right,  interest  and  claime,  in  all  and  every 
part  of  the  said  lands,  to  herself  any  ways  being  and  appertaining, 
■  iilifr  by  way  of  dower  or  thirds." 

"  The  presentments  of  the  minister  and  church-wardens  of  Stanley 
Hundred,  wcr«  delivered  into  the  coit,  under  their  hands.  And  also 
a  register  of  marriages,  burials  and  christenings." 

"  Upon  the  presentment  of  the  church-wardens  of  Stanley  Hundred 
for  suspicion  of  iuconlinency  betweeoe  Henry  Kinge  and  the  wife  of 
John  Jackson,  they  lyinge  together  in  her  husband's  absence  :  it  is 
thought  fitt  that  the  said  Kynge  shall  remove  hi*  habitation  from  her, 
and  not  to  use  or  frequent  her  company  until  her  husband's  retorne." 

•'  The  coppies  of  the  proceeding*  in  the  tnonlhlie  corts  at  Warros- 
quyoake  delivered  into  the  eon  by  Mr  John  Upton  and  Mr.  Thomas 
Fordon  commissioners  there." 


146  LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 

"  hypocrite,  by  a  story  of  Gusman  of  Alfrach  the  rogue. 
"In  regard  of  his  quality  and  practice,  judgment  re- 
"  spited  till  the  king's  pleasure  known;  and  all  the 
"  couucel  became  his  security." 

'July  13th,  1630.  William  Matthevves  servant  to 
"  Henry  Booth,  indicted  and  found  guilty  of  petit  trea- 
son, by  fourteen  jurors.  Judgment  to  be  drawn  and 
"  hanged." 

"  For  scandalous  speeches  against  Governor  and 
"Councell,  Daniel  Cugley  sentenced  to  be  pilloryd, 
;:  but  was  forgiven." 

"  September  17  th,  1630.  Hugh  Davis  to  be  soundly 
"  whipped,  before  an  assembly  of  Negroes  and  others 
"  for  abusing  himself  to  the  dishonor  of  God  and 
"  shame  of  Christians,  by  defiling  his  body  in  lying 
"  with  a  negro;*  which  fault  he  is  to  acknowledge 
"  next  Sabbath  day." 


"The  inventorie  of  the  poods  of  Roper  Prichard  delivered  into  cort 
and  pruved  to  lie  a  true  inventorie  by  the  testiinonie  of  John  Hausey." 

[TJJJ  In  deciding  controversies  between  individuals,  the  evidence  was 
always  recorded,  before  the  judgment  of  the  court  was  pronounced. 

#  Negroes  were  first  introduced  in  Virginia  from  a  Dutch  ship,  in  the 
year  J 620.     See  Beverley  pa.  51.     Burk's  Hist.  Vol.  1,  pa.  211 


Washington. 


I  Hi. 


HOLDEN  THE  24th  MARCH,  ANNO  DOMINI  1629-30. 

[From  a  MS*  belonging  to  Thomas  Jefferson,  Pre-  o>The  MS. 
sidentofthe  United  States,  which  was  purchased  by  from  which th* 
him  with  the  library  of  Peyton  Randolph,  from  his  g^ooVere 

executors. J  printed,  is  now 

in  the  Library 
AT    WHICH    WERE    PRESENT,  VIZ  :  of  Congress  at 

SIR  JOHN  HARVEY,  Knight,  Governor,  &c. 

Doctor  Pott, 

Capt.  Mathewes, 

Mr.  fiarrar. 

The  names  of  the  Burgesses  were  as  followeth,  viz: 

Impr.  tTor  the  plantations  of(j  Capt.  Thos.  Osboarne, 
Col  ledge  and  Richard  Brewster. 
James  Citty  } 

fibr  Archer's  Hope  and  (  Theodore  Moyses, 
Glebe  land  (  Henry  Ceny 

fforHarropand  the  plan-") 

tations  betvveene  Ar-  !  John  Browning, 
cher's  Hope  and  Mar-  ,'  Thomas  ffareley. 
tin's  Hundred  J 

ffor  Martin's  Hundred    \  ^ber-t  Scolchmorc, 

(  1  nomas  llossett. 

ffor  Mulbury  Hand         i  f^™5  Garwood, 
J  I  Anthony  Barham. 

ffor  Warwick  River        \  ™°™s  fflint' 

(  John  Brewer. 

C  Thomas  Ceely, 
ffor  Denby   

f3ohn  Upton. 

i  John  Atkins, 
ffor  Warrosquoiack       Adam  Thoroughgood. 
Elizabeth  Citty         ^  Lancelott  Barnes. ; 

f  Capt.  Graves, 

.•  Scarborough, 

ffor  Accowmacke           with  thoso,  ^i 
any  former  session 


14o,art  VII. 


150  LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 

ACT  II. 

A  fort  t 

tent  to  undertake  the  raysing  ol  a  fiort  at  roynt  tom- 
5ee  ant*  p.  fort,  whereupon  Capt.  Robert  flelgate,  Capt.  Thomas 
Purfury,  Capt.  Thomas  Graies,  Capt.  John  Uty, 
Capt.  Tho.  Willobv,  Mr.  Tho.  Heyrick,  and  Leu't'. 
Win.  Perry  by  j nil  consent  of  the  whole  Assembly,  were 
chosen  to  view  the  p'ace,  conclude  what  manner  of 
flbrte  shall  bee  erected,  and  to  compounde  and  agree 
with  the  said  Capt.  Mathewes  for  the  building,  raysing 
and  finishing  the  same.  And  whatsoever  bargaine  or 
contracte  the  said  committee  shall  make  concerning  the 
same,  the  whole  Assembly  are  content  to  ratifie  and 
continue  and  perfoxme. 


war 


ACT  III. 

N  the  inhabitants  and  planters  of  this  colo- 
pen3iti*»s  for,  ^    t-7p  PXGt>ssive  anc}  exorbitant  inprrossine"  of  com- 

;>u  the  qual- 
ity of  the  offence  shall  deservp,  de liver  their  bills  f 
lading  or  a  true  copy  thereof  to  the  G;>\pi>ior  and 
Councell  or  one  of  them.  And  that  a  true  invoice  of 
such  goods  consigned  to  marchants  heere  tivertd 

in  alsoe  as  before  upon  oath,  that  the  country  may  not 
be  defrauded,  neyther  the  marchants  iovne  with  any 
to  colour  their  ingrossings.  And  that  ihis  may  bee 
uppon  the  forfeyture  of  treble  thp  value  of  any  such 
goods  soe  bought,  ingrosssed  or  coloured,  the  moyiie 
thereof  to  goe  to  the  general!  good  of  the  colbny,  and 
the  other  moytie  to  any  man  that  shall  compla^ne  and 
really  prove  the  same  by  witnesses. 


ACT  V. 

FOR  the  better  furtherance  and  advancement  of  sta-   h\c  commo 
pie  commodities,  and  more  especially  that  of  potashes   £lUes\       , 
and  saltpeeter,  it  is  thought  jfitt  that  every  master  of  a  t0  i>e  ma.le  in 
flamily  within  the  severall   plantations  of  this  colony   P°'  Hsi"'s  fc 
shall  use  their  best  endeavours  to  preserve  and  keepe   MasteMof 
in  dry  and  tight  houses  or  casks  all  those   ashes   that  families  to 
shall  proceede  and  bee  made  by  the  wood  that  is  burned   wlJre  "10"' 
in  clearing  their  grounds,  that  they  may  be  ready  at 
all  tymes  to  be  delivered  to  those  that  shall  require  the 
same  to  make  experiment  thereof.     And  that  every  anf!  "rme- 
master  of  a  flamily  shall  have  a  special!  care,  after  a 
notice  thereof  given,   to  preserve  and  keepe  all  their 
urine  which  shall  be  made  in  their  severall  plantations, 
to  be  disposed  and  bestowed  as  by  a  note  in    writing 
they  shall  receave  directions  the  benefut  whereof  shall 
the  first  yeare  shall  redounde  to  those  that  shall  make 
the  experiment.     And  the  next  yeare  it  shall  bee  law- 
full  for  every  planter  to  make  the  best  benefitt  hee  cm 
thereof  to  his  own  use.    And  for  other  staple  commodi- 
ti<>.  as  iron,  salt,  vines,  &c.    the  whole  assembly  are 
willing  and  readie  to  yielde  their  best  assistance  in  set- 
ting and  raysing  them,  or  any  of  them  when  they  shall 
see  any  incouragement  thereunto  by  such  as  shall  bee 
men  of  experience  and  skill  to  perfacte  such  workes. 


152 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA. 


ACT  VI. 


Regulations 

fo'   insuring 
■»  sufficiency  of 
turn. 


TO  prevent  the  want  of  come  which  oftentymes  doth 
happen  t«  this  colony  by  reason  of  the  neglect  of  plant- 
ing sufficient  quantities  thereof  for  their  necessarie 
provisions,  It  is  ordered,  that  two  acres  of  corne  or 
neere  thereabouts  bee  planted  for  every  head  that 
worketh  in  the  grounde,  and  the  same  to  bee  suffi- 
ciently tended  weeded  and  preserved  from  birdes, 
hoggs,  cattell  and  other  inconveniences.  And  if  any 
planter  shall  bee  found  delinquent  therein  hee  shall  for- 
feite  all  his  tobaccoe  which  bee  made  of  his  cropp 
that  yeare,  the  one  halfe,  to  the  informer,  the  other  to 
bee  imployed  to  publique  uses  for  the  good  of  the 
country. 


ACT  VII. 


Regulations 

for  improving 
the  staple  of 
tobacco. 


Number  of 

plants  to  a 
hand  limited. 


Penalty  :'ur  of- 
iein":   !>ad  to- 
•' a  111/*  1  •  -i  W*8   "'   l'"S 

library  oj  Peyton  Randolph,  Jrom  his  executors.}        session  were 

printed.,  is  now 

PRESENT  Sir  John  Harvey,  Knight,  Governor,  '*  *e  lihrary 
he. 

Capt.  ffrancis  West,  Capt.  Wm.  Tucker, 

Capt.  John  West,  Mr.  Wm.  ffarrar, 

Capt.  Sam.  Mathewes,  Cupt.  Rich'd  Stevens, 

Capt.  Wm.  Clayborne,  Mr.  Henry  ffinch, 

Capt.  Natha'l  Basse,  Capt.  Thorn.  Purifye, 

Capt.  Juhn  Utye,  Capt.  Wm.  Peirce. 

*  The  peculiarities  in  the  hand-writing  of  the  acts  of  this  session, 
are  such  as  have  been  already  noticed  in  the  actg  of  the  preceding 
seggioD 

V 


164  LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 

The  names  of  the  Burgesses  were,  viz  : 

Arrowattockes     necke     of  >  c     t>  Thomas  Osborne, 
land,  Curies,  5 

Both    Shirley    Hundreds,  }  c         3,^  £ 
Mr.  flarrars,   and  Chap-  \  M*  Wa|tpr  ^ 
laynes,  ) 

Westover,   Flowerdewe       |Johnffludd. 
huiid.  and  Weyanoake,    ) 

ffirom  Capt.  Perryes  >  c        wmiam  p 

downwards  to  Hogge      \  MrFRichard  Richards. 
Island,  ) 

.  „.  (  Mr.  John  Southerne. 

James  Citty,  |  Lieut  T,J0S>  Crampe. 

.     ,     ,   TT  (  Mr.  Tho.  fTarlowe. 

Archer  s  Hope,  J  Percivell  Wood. 

ffrorn     Kethes     Creek     to  J  ^     Thomag  Harwood> 
Mulbury  Island  &  Sax-  V  Ca      Thos>  ffl 
oivs  Goale,  } 

i«r       •  1     tt  ^  Thomas  Seely, 

Warw.cke  River,  |  Thomag  Ramshawc. 

Waters  Creeke  and  the  up-  ^ 

per  parrish  of  Elizabeth  >  Capt.Thos  Willoughbye 
Citty,  ) 

The  lower  parrish  of  Eli-  )  £    Q  D  ^ 

zabeth  Cuty,  5 

Worrosquyoake — Mr.  Thomas  Jourdayne. 

.  .  C  Mr.  Edm'd  Scarborough. 

Accawmacke,    Capt.  JNich's  Matian. 

The  oathes  of  supremacy  and  allegiance  were  in  the 
Hrst  place  administered  to  the  Governor  and  CouncelL 
and  to  all  the  above  named  burgesses  in  like  manner 

In  the  afternoonc. 

The  Commission   from  his   majestic  nowe  in  force 
was  read  before  the  whole  bodie  of  the  Assembly. 


FEBRUARY,  1631-2— 7th  CHARLES  1st.  155 

ACT  I. 

The  24th  day  of  February  to  as  enacted  this  followingc. 
Order  for  the  Mynislers. 

IT  is  ordered.  That  theire  bee  a  unifonnitie  through-   Unilbrouty  ii 
out  this  colony  both  in  substance  and  circumstance  to   ncchurc,K 
tbe  cannons  and  constitution  of  the  church  of  England 
as  neere  as  may  bee  and  that  every  person  yeald  readie. 
obedience  unto  them  uppon  penaltie  of  the  paynes  and 
forfeitures  in  that  case  appoynted. 

ACT    II. 

THAT  the  statutes  for  comminge  to  church  every  Penalty  for 
Souday  and  holydays  bee  duly  executed.  That  is  to 
say  ;  that  the  church  wardens  doe  lc\y  one  shilling  for 
every  tyme  of  any  person's  absence  from  the  church 
havinge  no  lawfull  or  reasonable  excuse  to  bee  absent. 
And  for  due  execution  hereof  the  Governor  and 
Couucell  togeather  with  the  burgisses  of  this  grand  as- 
sembly doe  in  Gods  name  earnestlie  require  and 
chardge  all  commanders,  captaynes  and  church-war- 
dens that  they  shall  endeavour  themselves  to  the  utter- 
most of  theire  knowledge  that  the  due  and  true  execu- 
tion hereof  may  be  done  and  had  through  this  colony, 
as  they  will  answere  before  God  for  such  evills  and 
plagues  wherewith  Almighty  God  may  iustlie  punish 
his  people  for  neglectinge  this  good  and  wholesome 
lawe. 


hein<>'  absent 
from  church. 


ACT  III. 

IT  is  ordered,  That  as  many  of  the  mynisters  as  con-  Ministers  and 

venientlie  may,  and  one  of  the  church-wardens  at  least,  «--hurch-war- 

_  y,    ,  !•  •  i  dens  to  make 

of  every  parish  be  present  yearhe  at  midsomer  quarter  prDsentmenfs 

cort   holdeu  on  the  first  day  of  June ;  and  theire  to  and  return  a 

make  theire  presentments  uppon  oath,  togeather  with  |j'^l,Rhtgirm![-- 

a  register  of  all  burialls,  christnenings,  Sc  marriages,  as  riage&,'and 

likewise  their  accounts  of  all   levyes,  collections   and  births;  also  o: 

disbursements  as  have   beene   or    fallen  out  in  their  and^iXuse- 

tymes  concerning^  the  church  affayres.     And  further  ment« 

that  they  choose  church  wardens  at  the  feast  of  Easter 

vearlie. 


*5G 


Oath  of 
cl  pinch-  war- 
dens. 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 

ACT  IV. 

And  it  is  further  ordered  and  thought  expedient,  ac- 
cording to  a  former  order  mode,  by  the  governor  and 
councell  that  all  church-wardens  shall  take  this  oath 
and  that  it  bee  administered  before  those  that  are  of 
the  commission  for  mounthlie  corts,  viz. 

"YOU  shall  sweare  that  you  shall  make  present- 
"  ments  of  all  such  persons  as  shall  lead  a  prophayne  or 
11  ungodlie  life,  of  such  as  shall  be  common  swearers, 
"drunkards  or  blasphemers,  that  shall  ordinarilie  pro- 
"  fane  the  saboth  dayes  or  contemne  Gods  holy  word 
"or  sacraments.  You  shall  also  present  all  adulterers 
"  or  fornicators,  or  such  as  shall  abuse  theire  neighbors 
"  by  slanderinge  tale  carryinge  or  back  bitinge,  or  that 
"  shall  not  behave  themselves  orderlie  and  soberlie  in 
"  the  church  duringe  devyne  servise.  Likewise  they 
"  shall  present  such  maysters  and  mistrisses  as  shall  be 
"  delinquent  in  the  catechisinge  the  youth  and  igno- 
"  rant  persons.     So  helpe  yow  God  !" 


Penalty  for 
disparaging 
ft  minister. 


ACT  V. 

NOE  man  shall  disparage  a  mynister  whereby  the 
myndes  of  his  parishoners  may  be  alienated  from  him 
and  his  mynistrie  prove  less  eflectuall  upon  payne  of 
severe  censure  of  the  governor  and  councell. 


eaiion  of 
banns 


ACT  VI. 

Rites  of  main-  NO  mynister  shall  celebrate  matrimony  betweene 
ce°"brated  *  any  Persons  without  a  facultie  or  lycense  graunted  hy 
without  li  the   Governor,  except  the   baynes  of  matrimony  have 

ceiseo  pnbli-  beene  first  published  three  severall  Sundays  or  holy- 
dajs  in  the  time  of  devyne  service  in  the  parish  church- 
es where  the  sayd  persons d well  accordinge  to  the  booke 
of  common  prayer,  neither  shall  any  mynister  under 
any  pretense  whatsoever  ioyne  any  persons  soe  licen- 
sed in  marriage  at  any  unseasonable  tymes  but  only 
betweene  the  bowers  of  eight  and  twelve  in  the  fore- 
noone,  nor  when  banes  are  thrice  asked,  and  no  lycense 
in  tiat  respect  necpssarie,  before  the  parents  or  guardi- 
ai.s  of  the  parties  to  be  married  beinge  under  the  age 


FEBRUARY,  1631-2— 7th  CHARLES  1st.  15* 

of  twenty  and  one  years,  shall  either  personally  or  b} 
sufficient  testimony  signifie  unto  him  theire  consents 
given  to  the  said  marriage. 


set- 


ACT  VII. 

EVERY  mynister  in  this  colon}'  havinge  cure  of     Ministers  to 
soules  shall  preach   one  sermon  every  sunday  in  the  Preiuh  a 
yeare,  having  no  lawful   impediment,  and  yf  the  my-  s^iav!^ 
nisters  shall  neglect  theire  charge  by  unnecessarie  ab- 
sence or  otherwise  the  church  wardens  are  to  present    - 
it.    But  because  in  this  colony  the  places  of  their  cure 
are  in  many  places  flar  distant,  It  is  thought  fitt  that 
the  my  nisters  doe  soe  divide  theire  turtles  as  byjoynt 
agreement  of  the  parishoners  they  should  be  desired. 


ACT  VIII. 

IT  is  also  thought  fit,  That  upon  every  Sunday  the  Ministers  t» 

mynister  shall  halfe  an  hower  or  more  before  evenenge  ,cach  rh,,dre» 

,  .  .  .  .  °  ,  the  ten  com- 

prayer  examine,  catechise,  and  instruct  the  youth  and  mandtnente, 

ignorant  persons  of  his  parrish,  in  the  ten  command-  the  articles  of 

ments  the  articles  of  the  beiiefe  and  in  the  Lord's  praver  :  »e,lf$  ,1,e 

j     l    n    i»i«  i"     i  •  i  "    ■  Lords   prayer 

and  shall  diligenthe  heere,  instruct  ahd  teach  them  the  and cateehismi 
catechisme.  sett  forth  in  the  booke  of  common  prayer 
And  all  fathers,  mothers,  maysters  and  mistrisses  shall 
cause  theire  children,  servants  or  apprentizes  which 

have  not  learned  the  catechisme  to  come  to  the  church  Penalty  on 

at  the  tyme  appointed,  obedientlie  to  heare,  and  to  be  pa^etr*  *0"d 

ordered  by  the  mynister  until!  they  have  learned  the  not  sending- 

same:  And  yf  any  of  the  sayd  (Fathers,  mothers,  mays-  their  children 

ters  and  mistrisses.  children,  servants  or  apprentises,  ppdSd*n*n 
tion  of  the  mynisters  within  this  colony,  have  taken 
into  theire  consideration  by  what  way  theire  might  be 
a  sufficient  meanes  allowed  unto  the  said  mynisters  for 
theire  better  subsistance  and  encouragement  in   their 
mynistrie ;  and  thereuppon  have  ordeyned  and  enact- 
ed that  there  shall  be  payd  unto  thesayd  mynisters  the 
former  allowance  of  10lb.  of  tobaccoe  and  abushell  of 
corne,  in  such  manner  as  formerlie  hath  beene  done  ; 
and  because  of  the  lowe  rates  of  tobacco  at  this  present 
It  is  further  graunted  and  ordered,  that  theire  shal  be  Tithes  oi 
likewise  due  to  the  mynisters  from   the   first  day  of  !jna  ^es. 
March  next  ensuinge  the  20th  calfe,  the  20th  kidd  of 
gpates,  and  the  20th  pigge,  throughout  all  plantations 
within  this  colony ;  and  that  theire  may  arise  no  diffi- 
cultie  nor  controversie  in  the  payment  of  this  new  al- 
lowance of  meanes,  It  is  thought  Jitt  and  ordered,  That  How  set  out 
where  any  parishioners  shall  not   have   the   complete 
nomber  of  20  calves,  kidds  or  piggs  then  the  nomber 
which  hath  fallen  att  the  feast  of  Easter  shal  be  praysed 
and  rated  betweene  the  mynisters  and  one  or  more  of 
his  parishioners,  and  the  20th  part  thereof  allowed  to 
the  mynister  proportionally ;  but  yf  it  fall  out  the  num- 
ber of  calves,  kidds  or  piggs  arise  to  twenty  then  the 
owner  is  to  choose  five  out  of  the  sayd  nomber  and 
the  mynister  to  make  his  choyse  in  the  sixt  place,  and 
't  is  thought  fitt  that  the  owners  keepe  the  sayd  calves,   Hovv  l°0g  u 
kidds,  or  piggs  ttntill  the  tyme  that  they  bee  weaneable,   u?e  tinier* 
that  is  to  say,   for  calves  the  owner  to  keepe  them  7 
weekes,  and  kidds  likewise  7  weeks  and  piggs  a  month. 
And  the  parishioners  are  to  give  notice  to  the  mj  nisters  How  collected, 
alien  they  shall  fetch  theire  calves,  kidds, or  piggs  that 
be  due  unto  them.      And  this  act  to  continue  in  force,    Limitation  of 
untill  the  next  meetinge  of  the  grand  assembly,  at  which 
tyme  theire  may  fall  out  just  cause  of  alteration  either 
by  the  advancement  of  tobacco  or  some  other  meanes, 
for  that  formerlie  the  ancient  allowance  of  101b  of  to- 
bacco and  a  bttshell  of  corne  hath  beene  a  sufficient  pro 
portion  for  theire  maynteynance  in  their  callinge. 


Hits  acti 


160 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


Fees  of  mi- 
nisters. 


How  the  for- 
mer allowance 
to  be  collected. 


Penalty  for 
non-payment. 


Church-war- 
dens failing  iu 
their  doty  to 
be  liable  them- 
selves 


It  is  likewise  ordered,  That  the  mynister  shall  have 
these  petty  duties  as  follow  eth,  viz: 

Imprimis.     For  Marriage  2  0 

for  Christeningc  0  0 

for  Churchinge  1  0 

for  Buryiuge  1  0 

It  is  ordered,  That  tippon  the  25th  day  of  October 
if  it  be  not  Sunday,  and  then  the  day  follow  inge,  the 
church-wardens  shall  give  notice  to  the  parishioners 
that  they  bringe  in  the  dutie  of  10  lb  of  tobacco  for  the 
mynisters  unto  a  place  to  be  appoynted  within  that 
plantation  by  the  sayd  church-wardens,  and  that  the 
mynister  bee  warned  to  be  there  or  appoynt  some 
other  to  receive  the  same.  And  it  is  likewise  ordered, 
That  the  dutie  of  a  bushell  of  corne  be  brought  in  up- 
pon  the  1 9th  day  of  December  to  the  place  appoynted 
within  that  plantation  by  the  mynister.  And  no  plan- 
ter or  parishoner  may  neglect  the  bringinge  of  the  to- 
bacco, or  corne  uppon  the  penalty  that  yf  any  make  de- 
fault they  shall  forfeit  double  the  quantilie  of  the  tobac- 
co and  corne  to  be  levied  by  distresse  by  authoritie 
from  the  commander;  and  likewise,  by  distresse,  all  ar- 
rearages of  tobaccoe  and  corn  due  to  the  ministers  as 
duties  shall  or  may  be  recovered  by  virtue  of  this  or- 
der of  this  assembl}'.  And  yf  the  church-wardens  shall 
fayle  in  the  execution  of  tlieire  office  hereby  inioyned 
then  the  commander  shall  take  order  that  it  be  levied 
by  distresse  out  of  the  church-wardens'  goods  and  chat- 
tells. 


Churches  to  be 
built  and  re- 
paired. 


ACT  XV. 

IT  is  vrdeyued  and  enacted  tiiat  in  ail  such  places 
where  any  churches  are  waniinge,  or  decayed,  the 
inhabitants  shall  be  tyed  to  contribute  towards  th? 
buildinge  of  a  church,  or  repayringe  any  decayed 
church,  the  commissioners,  togeather  with  the  mynis- 
ters, church-wardens  and  chiefe  of  the  parish  to  ap- 
poynt both  the  most  convenient  place  for  all  parts  to 
assemble  togeather,  and  also  to  hire  and  procure  any 
workeman,  and  order  such  necessaries  as  are  requisite 
10  be  done  in  such  workes.    This  they  are  to  effect  be- 


FEBRUARY,  1631-2— 7th  CHARLES  1st,  161 


lore  the  feast  of  the  nativitie  of  our  Saviour  Christ,  or      Penalty  on 
else  the  sayd  commissioners,  yl  they  be  deficient  in  era  for  neglect 
theire  duties,  to  forfeit  501.  in  money,  to  be  imployed 
as  the  whole  bodie  of  the  Assembly  shall  dispose. 

And  it  is  ordered  in  like  manner,  That  theire  be  a  Burying         . 
certayne  portion  of  ground  appoynted  out,  and  impal-  srounrt 
ed  or  fenced  in  (uppon  the  penalty  of  twenty  Marques) 
'o  be  for  the  buriall  of  the  dead. 


ACT  XVh 

UPON  a  remonstrance  preferred  to  the  assembly,  fre?ch?M^ 

complayninge  that  the  (frenchmen  who  were,  about  in  the'cuiture 

ten  yeares  since,  transported  into  this  country  for  the  of  vines,  not 

plantirige  and  dressinee  of  vynes,  and  to  instruct  others  tobe.  Perm,tted 

•      i        °         i  -li-       i-  lit        i    li  i  ,0  plant  any 

in  the  same,  have  willmglie  concealed  the  skill,  and  not  tobacco, 
only  neglected  to  plant  any  vynes  themselves,  but  have 
also  spoyled  and  ruinated  that  vyniard,  which  was,  with 
great  cost,  planted  by  the  charge  of  the  late  company 
and  theire  officers  here;  and  yet  notwilhstandinge  have 
receaved  all  favour  and  encouragement  thereunto, 
which  hath  cjishartened  all  the  inhabitants  here,  It  is 
therefore  ordered  that  the  sayd  frenchmen,  togeather  Penalty, 
with  theire  families,  be  restrayned  and  prohibited  from 
plantinge  tobacco,  uppon  penahie  to  forfeit  theire 
leases,  and  imprisonment  untill  they  will  depart  out 
of  this  colony. 


ACT  XVII. 

AND  it  is  provided  and  ordered,  That  all  workers  Proportion  of 
uppon  corne  and  tobacco  shall  this  springe,  before  p]JnJeJJj,he 
the  25th  day  of  March,  plant  five  vyne  plants  per  pol,  inhabitants 
and  the  next  yeare,  before  the  first  day  of  March,  20 
per  pol,  uppon  penaltie  to  forfeite  one  barrell  of  corne 
for  every  one  that  shall  make  default,  halfe  to  be  to  Penalty  for 
him  that  shall  make  information  thereof,  and  the  other  nes  ec  ' 
halfe  to  publique  uses.     And  the  commissioners  for 
the  mounthlie  corts  established  in  divers  parts  of  this  How  inflicted, 
colony  shall  have  full  power  to  heare  and  determyne 
this  matter. 

W 


•>- 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA 


Council  and 
burgesses  to 
attend  divine 
service,  at 
beat  of  drum 

Penalty  for 
neglect. 

Duration  of 
this  act. 


ACT  XVIIL 

IT  is  ordered,  that  all  the  counsell  and  burgisses  ot 
the  assembly  shall,  in  the  morninge,  be  present  at  de- 
vine  service,  in  the  roome  where  they  sitt,  at  the  third 
beatinge  of  the  drum,  an  hewer  after  sun  rise,  uppon 
the  penaltie  of  one  shillinge  to  the  benefitt  of  the  mar- 
shall  at  James  Citty ;  and  y f  any  shall  absent  hiroselfe 
from  the  assembly,  to  pay  2s.  6d.  to  the  same  use ; 
and  yf  any  shall  after  neglect,  to  be  fined  by  the  whole 
bodie  of  the  assembly.  And  this  act  to  continue  in 
force  untill  the  assembly  shall  see  cause  to  revoke  it. 


Tobacco  not  to 
be  bartered 
for  goods  ex- 
cept for 
country  pro- 
duce, at  less 
than  6d.  per 
pound  on  the 
prime  cost. 


Penalty  for 
She  first  of- 
fence. 


For  the  sc- 
ond  offence. 


t'ot  the  3d 
>"fii»nrr 


ACT  XIX. 

AND  it  is  further  ordeyned  and  enacted  by  the  as- 
sembly, That  no  person  or  persons,  after  the  publica- 
tion or  notice  hereof,  doe  buy  or  cause  to  be  boughtj 
any  marchandize,  goods,  or  any  other  thinge  whatso- 
ever, exceptinge  cattle,  goates,  hoggs,  poultrey,  or 
any  houshould  stuffe,  corne,  hides  or  any  commodities 
that  is,  or  shall  be  raysed  here,  or  make  any  contract, 
bargayne  or  promise  for  the  havinge  or  buyinge  of 
the  same,  or  any  part  thereof,  in  exchange  for  the 
commoditie  of  tobacco,  directlie  or  indirectlie  allow- 
inge  under  the  rate  of  6d.  per  lb.  for  every  pound  of 
tobacco,  as  the  goods  first  cost  in  England,  bona  fide, 
uppon  penalty  to  have  or  suffer,  for  his  or  theire  first 
offence,  imprisonment  by  the  space  of  2  mounthes 
without  bayle  or  maynprize,  and  shall  also  loose  and 
forfeite  the  value  of  the  sayd  marchandize  or  goods 
soe  by  him  or  them  bought  or  had  as  aforesayd. 

And  yf  any  person  lawfully  convicted  or  attaynted 
of  and  for  the  sayd  offence,  be  thereof  agayne  lawful- 
ly convicted  or  attaynted  that  then  every  person  or 
persons  soe  offendinge,  shall  have  and  suffer  for  his 
second  offence,  imprisonment  by  the  space  of  one 
halfe  yeare  without  bayle  or  maynprize;  and  shall 
loose  duble  the  value  of  all  the  goods  and  marchan- 
dize soe  by  him  bought  or  had,  as  aforesayd. 

And  yf  any  person  beinge  lawfully  twice  convicted 
or  attaynted  of  and  for  the  sayd  offences,  and  the  third 
fyme  be  thereof  lawfully  convicted  and  attaynted,  that 


FEBRUARY,  1631-2— 7th  CHARLES  1st. 


162 


then  every  such  person  for  the  sayd  third  offence  shall 

be  sett  on  the  pillory  in  the  place  where  he  shall  then 

dwell  or  inhabite  and  loose  and  forfeite  all  the  goods 

and  cattle  that  he  or  they  have  to  theire  owne  use,  and 

also  to  be  committed  to  prison  there  to  remayne  dur- 

inge  the  governor's  pleasure  ;   Provided  that  the  com-  Limitation  of 

playnt  be  made  within  12  mounthes  after  the  fact  com-  theProsec«- 

mated. 


And  be  it  further  ordered,  That  the  commissioners 
at  the  mountlie  corts  in  all  places  of  the  country  now 
established,  shall  have  full  power  and  authoritie  by  ver- 
tue  of  this  act  to  enquire,  heere,  and  determyne  all  and 
every  the  defaults  and  offences  perpetrated,  committed 
and  done  contrary  to  this  act;  and  to  make  proces 
agaynst  the  offenders  as  the  governor  and  counsell  use 
to  doe  in  such  cases ;  Provided  alwayes,  that  the  sayd 
corts  doe,  in  this,  as  in  all  other  matters,  send  the 
true  coppies  of  theire  proceedinge  to  the  governor  and 
counsell  at  theire  next  sessions  of  theire  quarter  corts 
a  devise  some  meanes 
for  better inge  the  qualitie,  It  is  ordeyned  and  assented 
by  the  Governor  and  Counsell,  togeather  with  the 
Burgisscs  of  this  present  Grand  Assembly,  That  every 
shipp  arivinge  in  this  colony  from  England,  or  anv 
other  parts,  shall,  with  the  first  winde  and  weather, 
sayleuppto  the  porte  of  James  Citty  and  not  to  unlade 
any  goods  or  breake  any  bulke  before  she  shall  cast  an- 
chor there,  uppon  payne  that  the  captayneandmayster 
of  the  sayd  shipp  shall  forfeite  the  sayd  goods  or  the 
value  thereof,  and  shall  have  and  suffer  one  mounthes 
imprisonment ;  the  one  halfe  of  which  forfeiture  shall 
be  to  him  or  them  that  will  or  shall  sue  for  the  same, 
in  any  cort  of  record  within  this  colony,  and  the  other 
halfe  to  publiquc  uses  to  be  yeaiTie  disposed  by  the 
\ssemblv 


Vessels  re* 
strir.ted   to  the 
port  of  James 
City. 


164 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA 


ACT  XXI. 


Limitation  m 
planting  to- 
bacco. 


BE  it  also  further  ordered,  That  no  planter  or  may- 
ster  of  a  famylie  shall  plante  or  cause  to  be  planted 
above  two  thousand  plants  per  pol,  and  that  those  that 
shall  not  plante  or  be  otherwiseimployed  shall  not  trans- 
l'err  or  make  over  theire  right  of  plantinge  unto  any 
other;  and  to  prevent  any  greater  quantities,  every  plan- 
terormayster  of  a  famylie  plantinge  a  cropp  of  tobacco, 
How  oforccd.  more  or  lesse,  shall  be  tyed  to  procure  one  of  his  neigh- 
bours or  some  sufficient  man  to  come  and  nomber  his 
or  theire  plants  of  tobacco,  who  will  uppon  his  oath  de- 
clare and  testifie  unto  the  commander  of  that  place,  be- 
fore the  tenth  day  of  July,  that  he  hath  counted  and 
nombred  the  sayd  plants,  and  shall  say  in  his  consci- 
ence the  iust  and  true  nomber  of  them,  which  thinge  yf 
the  sayd  planter  or  mayster  of  a  famylie  shall  neglect, 
or  that  the  nomber  of  the  plants  is  found  toexceede  the 
proportion  of  2000  per  pol,  then  the  commander  is  here- 
by to  present  it  to  the  next  mounthlie  cort,  and  the 
commissioners  thereof  shall  give  present  order  to  have 
all  that  whole  cropp  of  tobacco  cutt  down  under  payne 
of  imprisonment  and  censure  of  the  governor  and 
counsell  and  grand  assembly  yf  they  neglect  the  ex- 
ecution thereof.  Also  uppon  the  neglect  of  the  com- 
mander, he  shall  be  censured  in  like  manner. 


How  many 
leaves  to  a 
plant  of  to- 
bacco to  be 
gathered. 

Penalty  and 
how  inflicted. 


ACT  XXIL 

IT  is  likewise  enacted,  That  no  person  shall  tend, 
or  cause  to  be  tended,  above  14  leaves,  nor  gather  or 
cause  to  be  gathered  above  9  leaves  uppon  a  plant  of  to- 
bacco ;  and  the  several  commanders  shall  hereby  have 
power  to  examine  the  truth  thereof;  and  yf  any  offend, 
to  punish  the  servants  by  whippinge,  and  to  bind  over 
the  mayster  unto  the  next  quarter  cort  at  James  Citty 
to  be  censured  by  the  governor  and  counsell. 


ACT  XXIII. 

No  seconds        IT  is  ordered  and  ordeyned,  That  no  person  shall 
ro  be  tended,      tend,  or  cause  to  be  tended  any  slipps  of  old  stalkes  of 
tobacco,  or  any  of  the  second  cropps,  upon  the  forfei- 
ture of  the  whole  cropp,  whereof  halfe  to  be  to  the  in- 
former, and  halfe  to  publique  uses  as  aforesayd. 


FEBRUARY,  1631-2— 7th  CHARLES  1st. 
ACT  XXIV. 


ltf» 


AND  it  is  further  ordered  and  enacted,  That  all  to-      Tobacco  to 

bacco,  shall  betaken  downe  before  the  end  of  Novetn-  !?e  stl!uck  !?e 

,  ,  ii-ii  .  'ore  the  endot 

ber,  or  else  not  to  be  adiudged  or  accounted  mar-  November. 
chantable. 


ACT  XXV. 

AND  whereas  these  orders  concerninge  tobacco  are 
of  soe  difficult  a  nature  that  all  inconvenyencyes  cannot 
possibly  be  foreseene,  yf  therefore  any  mischiefe  shall 
ensue,  and  that  complaynt  thereof  be  made  by  any  five 
or  more  of  the  burgisses  of  this  assembly,  the  gouve- 
nor  signified  unto  them  that  he  will  for  remedie  there- 
of, with  all  conveniencye  summon  an  assembly  to  con- 
sult and  treat  thereuppon. 


Assembly  to 
be  called,  to 
regulate  the 
planting  of 
tobacco,  if  the 
foregoing  laws 
be  found  de- 
fective. 


ACT  XXVI. 

AND  it  is  further  ordeyned,  That  yf  any  marchant 
or  any  other  person  whatsoever,  shall  hereafter  make 
complaynt,  unto   the  governor  of  the  place,  that  any 
tobacco  tendered  unto  him    or   them,  from  or  by  any 
planter  or  person  in  Virginia,  is  not  good  and  mar- 
chantable,  then  the  sayd  commander  is  hereby  required 
uppon  penaltye  of  being  disabled  frombearinge  any  of- 
fice in  this  colony  for  one  whole  yeare  and  further  cen- 
sure of  the  governor  and  counsell,  to  make  choyce  of 
two  sufficient  men  whom  he  shall  by  word  of  mouth,  or 
warrant  under  his  hand,  require  to  vewe  the  sayd  to- 
bacco and  uppon  oath  to  deliver  unto  him  the  goodnes 
or  badnes  thereof;  and  to  cause  the  same  to  be  burnt, 
yf  it  be  not  found  marchantable;  but  yf  any  person  or 
persons  shall  refuse  to  vewe  the  sayd  tobacco  and  ac- 
cordinglie  to  declare  the  quallitie  thereof  uppon  oath, 
then  it  is  ordered  that  the  sayd  commander  shall  bynd 
over  the  sayd  person  or  persons  to  answer  theire  con- 
tempt at  the  next  quarter  cort  before  the  governor  and 
counsell 


Penalty  io; 
passing  bad 
tobacco. 


How  tin. 
quality  to  be 
ascertained. 


Viewers  refus 
ing  to  act, 
how  punished 


166 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA. 


What  quantity 
of  corn  to  be 
tended. 


ACT  XXVII. 

ITis  likewise  ordered,  That  every  man  workinge  in 
the  ground,  shall  plant,  or  cause  to  be  planted,  and 
sufficientlie  tended,  this  yeare,  at  the  least  two  acres  of 
corne  per  pol,  uppon  penaltie  of  forfeiture  of  their 
whole  cropp  of  tobacco,  yf  uppon  vewe  thereof  they 
shall  be  found  deficient. 


For  preven- 
tion of  fore- 
stalling and 
ingrossing ; 

Captain  of 
every  vessel 
to  deliver  a  list 
of  all  persons 
on  board. 


Commander 
of  the   fort  to 
administer 
the  oaths  of 
supremacy  &, 
allegiance. 


Proclamation 
commanding 
the  capt.  to 
sail  with  the 
first  wind  to 
James  City. 


ACT  XXVIII. 

IT  is  ordered  by  the  Grand  Assembly ,  lor  the  preven- 
tion of  forestallinge  the  markelt  and  ingrossinge  ol 
comodities,  and  other  inconveniencyes,  that  the  present 
commander  of  the  fforte  at  Poynt  Comfort,  uppon  the 
arrivall  of  any  shipp  or  shipps  shall  immediatelie  make 
his  repayre  aboard  and  there  require  the  commander, 
captayne  or  mayster,  of  the  shipp  or  shipps,  to  deliver 
unto  him  a  true  list  of  all  such  persons,  which  were  im- 
barqued  in  theire  shipp,  at'  theire  coming  out  of  Eng- 
land, togeather  with  theire  ages,  countryes  and  townes 
where  they  were  borne,  and  to  keepe  record  of  the 
same ;  and  he  the  sayd  commander  of  the  ffort,  to  admy- 
nister  unto  them  the  oathes  of  supremacy,  and  allege- 
ance,  which  yf  any  shall  refuse  to  take,  that  he  committ 
him  to  imprisonment.  And  it  is  further  ordered,  that 
the  sayd  commander  of  the  fforte  there  read  and  fixe  at 
the  mayne  mast  of  the  shipp  or  shipps  a  proclamation 
as  folio weth,  to  wit  : 


ACT  XXVIII. 

"TO  the  captaynes,  maysters  and  commanders  ot 
"  any  shipp  or  shipps  ariveinge  -at  the  fforte  at  Poynt 
"  Comfort,  I  sir  John  Harvey,  knight,  governor  and 
"  captayne  generall  of  Virginia,  send  greetinge,  These 
"are  in  his  majesties  name  to  will  and  require  you 
"  and  straightlie  to  charge  h  command  you  accord- 
'•  inge  to  the  instructions  and  directions  unto  me  and  the 
"  counsell  of  state,  from  the  right  honorable  the  lords  of 
•'his  majesties,  most  honorable  priv3e  counsell,  And 
accordinge  to  an  act  of  the  Grand  Assembly,  that 
"  with  the  first  wynd  and  weather  you  sayle  directlie 
'•  to  the  porte  of  James  citty,  and  that  you  unlade  no 
"  goods,  nor  breake  any  bulke  nntill  you  shall  come 


a 


FERRUARY.  1631-2— ?th  CHARLES  1st.  16; 

an  anchor  there,  uppon  payne  of  the  losse  of  the 
goods,  and  one  mounthes  imprisonment.  Given  at 
James  Citty,  the  1st  of  March,  1631." 


ACT   XXIX. 

JTis  ordered,  That  no  person  or  persons  shall  dare  None  io  speak 
to  speake  or  parlie  with  any  Indians  either   in  the  or  i)ar]fy  Wlth 

',  .  *       .  .  -j. .  ..  ,  ,    the  Indians. 

woods  or  in  any  plantation,  yf  he  can  possibly  avoyd 
it  by  any  meanes,  but  as  soone  as  he  can,  to  bringe  them 
to  the  commander,  or  give  the  commander  notice  there- 
of uppon  penalty  of  a  mounthes  service  for  any  free 
man  ofiendinge  and  twenty  stripes  to   any  servant. 
But  for  the  planters  of  the  Easterne  Shoare,  the  com-  PenaI,.v  ' 
manders  are  required  to  observe  all  good  termes  of 
amitie ;  but  that  they  cause  the  planters  to  stand  up- 
pon theire  guard,  and  not  to  suffer  the  Indians  espe-  Exception  in 
cially  the  Mattawombes  to  make  any  ordinarie  resort  f^Je"sf^he 
or  aboade  in  theire  houses,  and  yf  any  English  with-  Eastern  shore 
out  leave  resort  unto  theire  townes,  the  commanders 
*o  bynd  them  over  to  the  next  quarter  port, 


ACT  XXX. 

THE  statutes  for  artificers  and  wovkemen  are  thought  Stat.  I,  Ja.c. 
to  be  published  in  this  colony,     (l  Ja.cobi  c.  6.)       JSgJ'Sl 


workmen. 


ACT  XXXI. 


AND  the  lawes  of  England  agaynst  drunkards  are  Laws  0f  En* 

thought  fitt,  to  be  published  and  dulic  put  in  execution,  land  against 

that  is  to  say,  for  every  oflencc  to  pay  five  shillings  to  b™publi?hert. 

the  hands  of  the  church  wardens,  and  further  as  is  Penalty, 
conteyned  in  the  statutes  of  the  4th  of  kinge  James 
and  the  5th  chapter. 


ACT   XXXII. 

AND  it  is  thought  Jilt,  That  whosoever  shall  sweare      Penalty  for 
an  oath  shall  pay  for  every  oath  one  shilling,  as  is  or-  swrarin^ 
ried  bv  the  statute,  &C 


16H 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA. 


Monthly 
courts   estab 
lished,  as  by 
a  former  law. 


Form  of  the' 
commission, 
to  the  com- 
missioners of 
monthly 
courts. 


ACT  XXX1I1. 

ACCORDINGE  to  the  former  orders  of  the  assem- 
bly the  5th  of  March,  1623,  and  of  the  governor  and 
counsell,  It  is  thought  fitt  and  according! ie  ordered 
that  the  mounthlie  corts  be  held  and  kept  in  remote 
parts  of  this  colony  :  vizt. 

ffor  the  upper  parts  ;  for  Warvvicke  River  ; 
ffor  Warrosquyoake  ;  for  Elizabeth-Citty  : 
ffor  Accawmacke. 

The  Commission  for  the  upper  parts  followeth,  vizt. 

"  To  all  to  whome  these  presents  shall  come,  I  Sir 
John  Harvey,  Knt.  governor  and  captayne  generall  of 
Virginia,  send  greetinge  in  our  Lord  God  everlastinge. 
Whereas  for  the  greater  ease  of  the  inhabitants  in  di- 
vers parts  of  this  colony,  and  for  the  better  conserva- 
tion of  the  peace,  and  due  execution  of  such  lawes  and 
orders,  as  are  or  shall  be  established  for  the  govern- 
ment of  the  peuple,  and  the  inhabitants  of  the  same. — 
The  governor  and  councell  togeather  with  the  assem- 
bly, have  thought  fitt,  and  accordinglie  ordered  and 
appoynted  that  theire  shall  be  mounthlie  corts,  and 
oftener  uppon  extraordinarie  causes  requiring  and 
agreed  uppon  by  the  maior  part  of  the  comissioners. 
held  and  kept  in  some  of  the  remote  plantations. 

"  Nowe  knowe  yee,  that  accordinge  to  the  sayd 
orders  these  persons  whose  names  are  here  inserted  are 
for  the  tyme  beinge  assigned  and  appoynted  to  be  the 
present  comissioners  of  and  for  the  upper  parts  with- 
in the  precincts  of  Charles  Citty  and  Henrico,  William 
ffarrar,  Esqr.  Capt.  flrancis  Epes,  Captayne  Thomas 
Pawlett,  Captayne  Thomas  Osborne,  Thomas  Palmer 
gent.  Walter  Aston,  gent,  which  sayd  comissioners,  or 
any  fowre  of  them,  whereof  Mr.  William  ffarrar  to  be 
alwayes  one,  shall  hare  power  and  authoritie  to  here 
and  determine,  all  such  suites  and  controversies  be- 
tweene  partie  and  partie,  as  exceede  not  the  value  of 
five  pounds  stirlinge  ;  and  farther,  that  they  take  into 
their  cares,  matters  of  petty  offences,  the  conservation 
of  the  peace,  the  quiett  government  of,  and  safetie  of 
the  people  there  residing  or  beinge ;  and  that  all  or- 
ders, and  proclamations  be  kept  and  observed,  and  ac- 
cordinge to  the  same,  and  as  neere  as  may  be,  accord- 


FEBRUARY,  1631-2— 7 ill  CHARLES  1st.  109 

inge  to  the  lawes  of  the  realme  of  England,  to  inflict 
punishment,  uppon  the  offenders  and  delinquents,  and 
to  doe  and  execute,  whatever  a  justice  of  peace,  or  two 
or  more  justices  of  peace  may  doe,  such  offences  oulie 
excepted,  as  concern*  the  taking  away  of  life  or  mem* 
bers  ;  Provded  ahvayes  that  it  shall  and  may  he  lawful; 
for  the  plaintiff  or  defendant,  in  any  suite  before  the 
sayd  commissioners  dependi'nge  either  before,  or  after 
judgment,  yf  it  be  before  execution  awarded,  to  appeale 
to  the  cort  of  James  Cittv  there  holden  bv  the  cover- 
nor  and  counsell.  And  thev  are  hereby  required  from 
tymeto  tyme,  tokcepe  records,  of  all  judgments,  orders, 
and  other  matters  of  moment,  as  by  them  shall  be  con- 
cluded and  agreed  on.  And  this  comission  to  conti- 
nue in  force  until]  I  by  my  comission  under  the  seale 
of  the  colony  shall  signifie  the  contrarie.  Given  at 
James  Citty,  the  first  day  of  March,  1631,  and  in  the 
seaventh  yeare  of  the  raigne  of  our  soveraigue  Lord 
Charles,  by  the  grace  of  God  of  England,  Scotland, 
France  and  Ireland,  tinge,  defender  of  the  faytb,  and 
in  the  25th  yeare  of  this  plantation. '' 

It  is  thought  jitt,   that   the  comissioners  shall  take   OhIi  of  com 
this  oath  as  followeth,  vizt.     "  You  shall  sweare  as  a  m'ssi0»u'l"s- 
comissioner  for  the  upper  parts,  within  the  precincts  of 
Charles  Citty  and  Henrico,  accordinge  to  the  articles 
of  the  comission  directed  unto  you,  by  the  governor, 
you  shall  doe  equall  right,  to  the  poore  and  to  the  rich 
after  your  cuuninge,  witt,  and   power,  and  after  the 
lawes  and  customes  of  this  colony,  and  as  neere  as  may 
be  after  the  lawes  of  the  realme  of  England  and  statutes 
thereof  made,  you  shall  not  be  of  counsell  in  any  case 
orquarrellhanginge  before  you,  and  that  you  hold  your 
corts  accordinge  to  the  sayd  comission,  you  shall  not  lett 
for  guift,  or  other  cause,  but  well  and  trulie  you  shall 
doe  your  office  of  comissioner,  sot  helpeyou  God,  &ic." 

The  like  comission  to  be  drawen  mutatis  mutandis  Commissiou- 
for  Warwicke  river.  These  comissioners  Capt.  Samuel  '^.i "';,,,.. ■" 

wick  i  tvei . 

Mat  hewn,  E-q.  quor.  Capt.  Richard  Stephens,  Esq. 
quor.  Capt.  Thomas  Fflyut,  John  Brewer,  gent.  Za- 
charie  Cripps,  gent.  Thomas  tieely   gent. 

warrosquyoake. 

Capt.  Nath.  Basse,  Esq.  quor.  Thomas  Jorden,  gent.   For  IVarros- 
Richard  Bennett,  gent.  Win.  Hutchinson,  gent.  John  1«v«»i» 
Upton,  gent. 

X 


no 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA. 


For  Elizabeth 
City. 


For  Acco- 
mack. 


ELIZABETH  CITTY. 

Capt.  Wm.  Tucker,  Esq.  quor.  Wm.  English,  gent. 
Capt.  Thomas  Purifir,  Esq.  quor.  George  Downes, 
gent.  Capt.  Thomas  Willowby,  John  Arundell,  gent. 
Adam  Thoroughgodd,  gent. 

ACCAWMACKE. 

Capt.  William  CJayhovrne,  Esq.  quor.  Obedience 
Robins,  gent.  Capt.  Thomas  Grayes,  quor.  John  Howe, 
gent.  Cnpt.  Edmond  Scarborough,  quor.  Roger  Saun- 
ders, gent.  Charles  Harmar,  gent. 


IWeflenTs  es- 
tates   to  lie  aj>- 
p  fused  in 
money. 


ACT  XXXIV. 

IT  is  thought  fitt  and  accordinglie  orderd,  That  there 
be  a  publication  made  that  all  estates  of  any  deceased 
persons,  be  appraysed  after  the  rates  of  money  and  not 
in  tobacco  as  hath  beene  accustomed  heretofore. 


Mon»h!yrot'rls 
to  prescribe 
pnuisi  in-  nt 
foi  taking 
awai  boats, 
canoes,  k. 
weirs. 


ACT  XXXV. 

IT  is  thought  fitt,  That  the  mounthlie  corts,  doe  as 
in  their  discretions  they  see  fitt,  strictlie  doe  right 
agaynst  such  persons  as  shall  take  away  or  loose  any 
other  mens  boates  or  cannoes,  or  shall  take  away  any 
wares,  because  of  the  great  damage,  that  may  ensue, 
uppon  such  trespasse,  and  wronge. 


ACT  XXXVI. 

Contents  of  a         IT  is  ordered,  That  a  barrel]  of  come  shall  be  ac- 
barrelof  corn.   colinU,(l  flve  bushells  of  Winchester  measure,  that  is  to 
sa\,  40  gallons  to  the  barrel!, and  that  thecomissioners, 
for  the  mounthlie  corts  throughout  the  colony,  doe  take 
Sealed  barrels   order  and  see  that  sealed  barrells  are  made  and  sealed 
to  be  kept.         with  this  scale  as  in  the   margent,   [AG]    which   seale 
they  are  to  keepe,  and  uppon  request  to  seale  such  bar- 
rells, and  bushells.  as  shall  be  brought  unto  them. — 
Penalty  for       And  be  it  orde.yn.ed  and  established,  That  whosoever 
unsealed   sjla]j  ,lse  or  cause  to  be  used  any  unsealed  barrel's  or 
bushells  after  the  feast  of  St.  John  Baptist,  next  ensue* 
inge,  shall  forfeit  13s.  4d.  and  sett  on  the  pillorye  and 


FEBRUARY,  1611-2— 7th  CHARLES  1st.  171 

the  measure  and  barrel!  deficient  shall  be  broken  or 
burnt.     And  for  defective  weights,  it  is  ordayned  that   And  defective 
the  offender  shall  be  punished  according  to  the  statute  weSbte- 
in  that  case  provided. 

ACT  XXXVfl. 

The  2d  of  March,  1031. 
THE  Assembly  doth  order  and gr aunt \  That  there  Compensation 
be   payd  out  of  the   gpnerall    Ievey  unto  Cant.  Mar-   V'. ca?1' .. 
shart  s  attorney  in  full  for  the  earraiges  tor  the  ordi- 
nance, 1375  lb.  of  tobacco.      And  likewise  in  conside-   Alsoadona- 
ratiun  of  the  good  service  done,  by  the  sayd  Captain   'l0" to  l,ls  wife 

M        i       *.  .     .1'  1  i*r  i  •         &•  children. 

JMarshartt  to  this  colony,  and  to  relieve  the  necessities 
of  his  wife  and  children,  the  Assembly  doth  give  as  a 
gratuitie,  to  be  sent  unto  her,  4500  lb.  of  tobacco,  to 
be  payd  the  next  cropp. 

ACT  XXXVIII. 

IT  is  ordered.  That  the  Governor  and  Counsell,  shall  No  taxes  to  be 
not  lav  anv  taxes  or  impositions,    uppon   the  colony,   '"d.nythe 

■«        »  ..  governor  ql 

theire  laud,  or  comodities,  otherwise  than  by  the  autho-  council ;  but 
ritie  of  the  Grand  Assembly,  to  be  levyed,  and  ymploy-  b>;  authority 
ed,  as  by  the  Assembly  shall  be  appoynted.  sembly^" 


ACT  XXXIX. 

THE  Assembly  allowed  of  these  publique  chardges  Appropriation 
followioge,  vizt.  law. 

lb.  Tobacco. 
Imprimis,  to  Capt.  Michacll  Marshartt  5875 

Capt.  Mathewes  for  the  ffort     103000 
Capt.  Peirce  he  beinge  to  shew 

account  -  -       007351 

Capt.  Sat/re  and  to  shew  the  ac- 
count -  -  1CS0 
Doctr.  Pott  he  beinge  to  shew 

the  account       -  -  3400 

Capt.  Osborne  for  lead  0150 

ffor  Buffc  Coates  -  0800 

Win.  Kcmpe  for  shott         -  0100 

Capt.  Mathews  for  Robt.  Watch- 
ingsayle  -  -  0500 

Sum  ma  Totalis         122856 


172  LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 

ACT  XL. 

Governor  not         THE  Governor  shall  not  withdrawe  the  inhabitants 

theinhai.Uants  ^loin  tne"'e  private  labours,   to   service   of  his    own, 

from  tiu-ir         uppon  any  coullor  whatsoever.     And  in  case  the  pub- 

private  la-         linne  service  require  imployments  of  many*  hands,  be- 

own  service.       ^ore  ^ie  houldinge  of  a  Grand  Assembly,  to  give  order 

for  the  same,  in  that  case  the  levyinge  of  men  shall  be 

Exception,        done  by  order  of  the  Governor,  and  whole  bodie  of  the 

Counsell,  and  that  in  strch  [manner]  as  to  be  the  least 

burthensome  to  the  people,  and  most  free  from  partia- 

litie,  (sudden  incursions  of  the  Indians,  and  such  like 

cases  excepted.) 

And  whereas  many  occasions  doe  happen  wherein 
the  Governor  is  to  imploy  boates  and  hands,  It  is 
thought  fitt  five  or  six  sufficient  men.  shall  be  provid- 
ed on  purpose,  and  they  to  be  allowed  maynleynancr- 
from  the  Governor, 


ACT  XLI. 

Privileges  of  ALL  the  old  planters  that  were  here  before,  or  came 

»crs0t  P  ^  *n  at  tne  'ast  cominge  of  Sir  Thomas  Gates,  shall  be 
exempted  from  theire  personable  service  in  the  warrs, 
and  any  publique  charge  (church  duties  excepted)  that 
beionge  particularly  to  theire  persons,  not  exemptinge 
theire  families  except  such  as  shall  be  comander  inchcife. 


ACT  XLII. 

Btirgesses  fto  Burgisses  of  the  General!  Assembly  shalT  be  ar- 

from  arrests.  ''ested  dnringe  the  tyme  of  the  Assembly,  a  wceke  be- 
fore or  a  weeke  after,  uppon  pa\ne  of  the  creditor's 
forfeiture  of  his  debt,  and  such  punishment  uppon  the 
officer  as  the  cort  shall  award. 


ACT  XLII1. 

Forstailing  &         THE  statutes  and  lawes  of  England  agaynst  fore- 
engros&iojr.       stallers,    and  engrossers,  to  be  made  known  and  exe- 
cuted in  this  colony 


FEBRUARY,  1631-2— 7th  CHARLES  1st.  173 

ACT  XLIV. 

EVERY  private  planter's  devident,  shall  be  survey-  Lands  to  be 
ed  and  layd  out  in  several!,  and  the  bounds  recorded   surveyed 
by  the  surveyor,  and  yf  there  be  any  petty  differences 
betwixt  neighbours  about  theire  devidents,  to  be  dcsi- 
ded  by  the  surveyor,  yfof  mayne  importance  to  be  re- 
fered  to  the  Governor  and  Counsell. 


ACT  XLV. 
FFOR   encouragement  of  men    to    plant   store  of  Pi  ice  of  com 
corne,  the  prize  shall  not  be  stinted,  but  it  shall  be  free  J]'^!^* 
for  every  man  to  sell  it  as  deere  as  he  can.     And  the 
reason  hereof  is  contrary  to  the  president  of  other  coun- 
tries, and  kingdoms,   for  none  are  so  poore  heere,   as 
that  they  may  not  have   as  much  corne,  as  they  will 
plant,  havinge  land  enough. 


ACT  XLVI. 

ALL  trade  with  the  Savages  prohibited,  as  well  Trade  with  tfa 

.  ■•  •  Indians  pro- 

pubhque  as  private.  hibitedf 

taon.es,  and  nave  a  llu*h  deake,  or  titled  with  a  gratinge  to  Canada 
and  a  trapaulinge. 


-176 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


Commanders 
to  full  upon  the 
Indians,  found 
lurking  about, 
or  molesting 
hogs,  &C. 


ACT   LXI. 

FFOR  the  Indians  we  hould  them  our  irrecosile- 
able  enimies*  thought  jitt,  That  yf  any  Indians 

doe  molest  or  offend  hoggs,  or  any  thing  pise,  or 

that  they  be  found  lurkinge,  then  the  comanders 

shall  have  power  by  vertue  of  this  sufficient  par- 

tie  of  men,  to  fall  out  uppon  them.     And  shall 

finde  occasion. 


•Certain  duty 
on  vessels. 


ACT  LXII. 

EVERY  vessell  or  shipp  cominge  out  of  the  ocean, 
shall  until!  further  order  he  taken  therein, 

shall  pay  after  the  rate         of  gun  powder,  and  ten  iron 
shott  for  every  hundred  tunns  the  fort  at  Poynt 

Comfort,  and  so  to  be  accounted  proportionably 
bigger  or  lesser. 


Sufficient 
'."ences. 


Secretary  s 
fees. 


Marshal's  fees. 


ACT  LXIII. 

EVERY  man  shall  enclose  his  ground  with  suffici 
ent  fences  uppon  theire  owne  perill. 


ACT  LXIV. 

THE  secretaries  fees  shall  be  as  followeth,  vizt. 

ffor  a  warrant         -         -         05  lb.  Tobacco. 

ffor  a  passe  -         -         10 

ffor  a  freedom  20 

ffor  a  commission  of  adminst.  20 

ffor  a  patent, 

ffor  recording, 

ffor  an  order  of  cort. 

An  yf  the   secretary  shall  desire  it  he  may  require 
for  every  here   mentioned,  one  bushel  of 

come. 

The  Marshalls  fees  shall  be — 

ffor  an  arrest         -         -         10  lb.  Tobacco, 
ffor  warninge  to  the  cort  2 

*  In  this  and  a  few  succeeding  chapters  a  few  words  are  not  legible 
in  the  manuscript — but  they  arc  inserted  in  similar  acts  passed  at  the 
rext  session. 


FEBRUARY,  1631-2— 7th  CHARLES  1st.  177 

10  1b.  Tobacco. 


,        .                  C  comnitre  in  10 

Imprisonment      10 


Duckinjre 


Tlie   prisoner  lyinge  in   prison,  )  e 

marshall's  attendance  p  t  day  ) 
ffor  every  5  lb.  of  tobacco  the  niarshall  may  require  1 
bushel  of  come. 


ACT  LXV. 

BESIDES  the  103000  of  tobacco  afore  allotted  to  Further  aW 

be  payd  to  Captayne  Samuel   Mathewes,  It  is  agreed  lowanottp 

and  graunted,    that  halfe  a  bushel  of  come  for  e*>ery  Jhew's. 
titheable  person  be  payd  unto  the  said  Capt.  Matthewes, 


toireather  with  the  tobacco. 


ACT  LXVI. 

ALL  former  acts  and  orders  made   heretofore  by  All  former  act?. 

any  Assembly  to  be  held  and  accounted  repealed  and  repealed 
of  none  effect. 


ACT  Lxvri. 

IT  is  ordered,  That  the  22d  day  of  March  be  yeare-  The22dof 

lie  kept  Holyday  in  comemoration  of  our  deliverance  March  to  be 

from  the  Indians  at  the  bloodie  massaker  which  hap-  Jeivedasa 

pened  tippou  the  22d  of  March  1G21.  holiiday. 


ACT  LXVIII. 

L ASTLIE,  It  is  ordered,  That  these  acts  and  ordi- 
nances be  published  throughout  this  colony,   and   the 
cotnissioners,   for  the  mounthlie  corts  doe  at  the  be-   How  theseacts 
g'tnninge  of  theire  corts  always  read   or  cause  to  be  |jgheei  ,^  , 

i        ,t       io    r  m   ^  ^  ^ 

Si  Gawseyes  Care  ) 

ffor  Shirley  Hundred  Hand — Mr.  Cheyney  Boys. 

fforWestover  &  fllovverdue  Hundred — Mr.  John  flludd. 

ffor  We3'anoake — Mr.  Richard  Coxe. 

Ilbr  Checohominey — Mr.  Bridges  flreeman. 

tlbrSmvthes  mount  and  Pe- )  ,T     T  ,     c        . 
o  >  Mr.  Jolin  bmyth. 

r\es  Poyiit  )  J 

ilbr  James  Citty  Island — Mr.  John  Jackson, 
ilbr  Pasbeyhoigh — Mr.  John  Corker. 
ffor  the  Necke  of  Laud — Seir  Thomas  Crumpt. 
ffor  Gleabe  Land  St  Archers  ^  Roger  Webster, 
Hope  \  Henry  Deney. 

ffor  over  the  water:  agaynst  \  M     R.  .      ,  ^     . 
James  Citty  ^  Mr*  K,c,,a,tl  «*»»«*. 


SEPTEMBER,  1632 — stli  CHARLES  1st.  '  7" 

rtbr  Hogg  Hand — Mr.  Richard  Tree. 

,.      ,,  D  (  Mr.  John  Browningc 

(for  Mounts  Bay  J  ^  John  Warehan* 

~     »,      •       ri      ,      .  (  Mr.  Rab't  Seofchmoiv 

for  Martins  Hundred  J  ^  PercivaI1  Wootl  Thgmu  ^ 

ffor  Denbigh  &  to  Waters  Creeke-Mr.Pitliplace  Clause 

«     „,  ,  (  Mr.  Thomas  Jorden, 

flor  Warrosquyoake  J  Mi.  Wm  Hutchyson. 

ifrom    Waters    Creeke    to  (  Mr.  Joseph  Stratton, 
Marie's  Mount  (  Mr.  John  Powell. 

fCapt.Thos.Willowby. 
ffor  the  upper  parish  of  Eli-  I  absent, 

zabelh-City  j  Mr.  Henry  Seawcll, 

(^  Mr.  John  Sipsey. 

ilor  the  lower  parish  of  Eli-  CMr.  Adam  Thorowgood 

'(,01  "'" 
ses  in  this  present  Grand  Assembly  have  taken  the 
sayd  acts  tntotheire  consideration,  and  accordingc  a- 
was  then  provided  where  ncede  required  have  made  ?. 
cleerer  explanation  of  some  of  them,  as  likewise  spme 
additions  and  alterations,  wee  doe  therefore  hereby 
deyne  and  establish  that  these  acts  and  orders  in  these 
-•resents  following^  sop  explaned  and  altid  thought  expedient^ 
accorcfinge  to  a  former  order  made  by  the  Governor 
a  uiseli.  that  ail  church-wardens,  shall  take  this 

v  ii.,  am    that  it  be  administred  before  those  that  are  of 
the  comission  for  the  monthlie  corts,  vizt. 

"  You  shall  sweare  that  you  shall  make  true  pre- 
sentments of  all  such  persons  as  shall  lead  a  prophane 
or  ungodlie  life,  of  such  as  shall  be  comon  swearers, 
drunkards,  or  blaspheamers,  that  shall  ordinarilie  pro- 
phane the  saboih  dayes  or  contemne  God's  holy  word, 
or  sacraments,  you  shall  also  present  ail  adulterers  or 
fornicators,  such  as  shall  abuse  their  neighbours  by 
slanderinge,  tale  carryinge  or  backbitinge,  or  that  shall 
not  behave  themselves  orderlie  and  soberlie  in  the 
churche  duringe  devine  service.  Likewise  you  shall 
j)resent  such  masters  and  mistrisses  as  shall  be  delin- 
quent in  catechising  of  the  youth  and  ignorant  per- 
sons, sue  help  you  God.'' 


Ministers  (o 
visit  those  dan- 
gerously sicU. 


ACT.  IX. 

WHEN  any  person  is  dangerouslie  sicke  in  any 
parish  the  mynister  having?  knowledge  thereof  shall 
resort  unto  him  or  her  to  instruct  and  comfort  them  in 
theire  distresse. 


Register  of 
marriages, 


ACT.  X. 

IN  every  parish  church  within  this  colony  shall  be 
kept,  by  the  mynister  a  booke,  wherein  shall  be  writ- 


SEPTEMBER  1632— 8th  CHARLES  1st.  188 

ten,   the   day  and   yeare  of  every  christeninge,  wed-   births  and 
dinge,  and  burriall.  «-*£* 

52^5?  parish. 

ACT  XI. 

MYNISTERS  shall  not  give  themselves  to  execsse  Deportment  of 
in  drinkinge  or  ryott,  spending  theire  tyme  idelie  by  l),""s,c,,; 
day  or  by  night  playinge  at  dice,  cards,  or  any  other 
unlawful!  game,  but  at  all  tynies  convenient  they  shall 
heare  or  reade  somewhat  of  the  holy  scriptures,  or 
shall  occupie  themselves  with  some  other  honest  stu- 
dies, or  exercise,  alwayes  doinge  the  things  which  shall 
apperteyne  to  honestie  and  endeavour  to  profitt  the 
church  of  God,  havinge  alwayes  in  mynd  that  they 
ought  to  excell  all  others  in  puritie  of  life,  &  should  be 
examples  to  the  people,  to  live  well  and  christianlic. 


ACT  XII. 

IN  every  parish  church  within  this  colony  the  holy  Sacrament  i^ 

communion  shall  bee   adttriuistred    by   the    mynister  Jj-MmST 

thrice  in  the  yeare  whereof  the  feast  of  Easter  to  be  year 


one. 


ACT  III. 

AND   all    preachinge,  administringe  of  the  com-  SS£t1t" 

munion  baptizinge  of  children  and  marriages,  shall  be  tism  and 

done  in  the  church  except  in  cases  of  necessitie.  marriages  to 

1  be  done  in  tin 

J  church. 


ACT  XIV. 

THE  Governor  and   Counsell,  togeather  with  the  Provision  foi 
burgisses  of  tliis  Grand  Assembly  uppon  the  petition   m,niste" 
of  the    mynisters  within    this  colony,  have  taken  into 
theire  considerations  by  what  way  theire  mi^ht  be  a  suf- 
ficient means  allowed  unto  the  sayd  mynisters,  for  theire 
belter  subsistence  and  encouragement  in  theire  mynis- 
try,  and  thereuppon  have  ordeyned  and  enacted,  That 
theire  shall  be   payd  unto  the  said  mynisters,  the  for-   10  "'  °ftob*c 
mer  allowance  of  10lb  of  tobacco  and  a  Emsbellofcorne,  Ti^ttwnT 
in  such  manner  as  formerlie  hath  beene  due.    And  be-  tithe, 
cause  of  the  low  rates  of  tobacco  at  present,  it  is  fur- 
ther graunted  and  ordered  that  theire  shall  be  likewise 
due  to  the  mynisters,  from  the  first  day  of  March  last 
past,  for  andduringe  the  terme  of  one  whole  yeare  next 


184  LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


\iso  the  20th  ensueuige,  the   twentyeth  calfe,  the  twentyeth  kidd  of 

calf.  '' 


goates,  and  the  twentyeth  pigge  throughout  all  the  plan 


tatioos  in  this  colon}';  and  where  the  noinber  of  the 
calves,  kidds,  or  pig^s  arise  to  twenty,  then  the  owner 

How  set  out.  js  to  choose  five  out  of  the  sayd  nomber  of  twenty,  and 
the  mynister  to  make  cboyse  in  the  sixt  place,  but  yf  it 
soe  fall  out  that  the  noinber  bee  lesse  than  twenty,  then 
the  mynister  shall  sett  the  price,  ami  the  owner  either 
to  take  the  sayd  calves,  kidds  or  piggs,  then  fallen  and 
pay  the  mynister  the  twentieth  part  or  else  the  mynister 
to  take  the  same  and  allow  unto  the  owner  soe   much 

How  long  the   as  shall  be  due  unto  him.    And  it  is  thought  jitt,  That 

owners  to  keep  tne  owner  keep  the  sayd  calves,  kidds  or  piggs,  untill 
the  tyme  that  they  be  weanable,  that  is  to  say,  lor 
calves  the  owner  to  keepe  them  seaven  weekes,  and 
kidds  likewise   seaven    weekes  and  piggs  one  mounth. 

To  sive  notice  And  the  parishioners  are  to  give  notice  unto  theire 
mynisters  when  they  are  to  fetch  theire  calves,  kidds 


to  the  minis- 
ters. 


and  piggs  that  be  clue  unto  them. 


ACT  XV. 

Fees  of  mmis-       jj'  [s   likewise  ordered,  That  the    mynisters  shall 
have  these  petty  duties  followinge,  vizt : 

(Tor  marriage  -  -  2s.  0 

ffor  chnrchinge  -  -  10 

ffor  burryinge  -  -         10 


ACT  XVI. 

How  the  Min-        IT  is  ordered,  That  uppon  the  25lh  of  October,  yf  it 

isters (|,,ns  oi      bee  not   Sonday,  &.  then  the  day  followinge  the  church 
10H)-of  Cobc.  ,  i     it     •  .     .■  •  i-  u       .u 

and  a  bushel      wardens  shall  give  notice  to  the  parishioners,  that  they 

>i  coincollec-  bringe  in  the  dutie  of  10  lbs.  of  tobacco  for  the  mynis- 
,ed-  ters  unto   a  place  to  be  appoynted,  within  that  planta- 

tion by  the  church  wardens,  and  that  the  mynisters  be 
warned  to  be  there,  or  appoynt  some  other  to  receive 
the  same.  Audit  is  likewise  ordered,  That  the  dutie 
of  a  bushell  of  corne,  be  brought  in  uppon  the  19th  day 
of  December  to  the  place  appoynted  within  that  plan- 
tation, by  the  mynister.  And  no  planter  or  parishioner 
may  neglect  the  bringinge  of  the  tobacco,  or  corne  as 
aforesayd,,  uppon  the  penaltie  that  yf  any  make  default, 
Penally.  they  shall  forfeite  double   the  quautitie  of  tobacco  and 

corne,  to  be  levyed  by  distresse,  by  the    anthoritie  ot 
the  comanders.     And  likewise  all  arrerages  of  tobac- 


SEPTEMBER,  1G32— 8th  CHARLES  1st.  185 

co  and  come  which  have  been  due  to  the  tnynisters  as 
duties  shall  and  may  he  recovered  by  distresse,  by  vir- 
tue of  this   act  of  this   Assembly,  and  yf  the  church 
wardens  shall    fayle  in  the  execution  of  theirc  office,  d^JJa'Jai' 
hereby  enioyned,  then  the  comander  shall  take  order,  dens  for  n<>  anA 

*  "  I'i'iits  count- 

that    he   hath  counted  and  nombercd  the  sayd  plants,  efl 

and  shall  say  in  his  conscience  the  iust  and  true  nom-      Return  on 

her  of  them,  which  thinge  yf  the  said  planter  or  master  orith- 

of  a  familie  shall  neglect,  or  that  the  number  of  plants 

be    found  to   exccede  the  proportion  of  two  thousand 

plants  per  pol,  then  the  comander  is  hereby  required  ^ote^crop 

to  present  it  to  the  mounlhlie  corts,  and  the  com  is  si-  to  be  cm 

oners  there  shall  give  present  order  to  have  that  whole  ■  pa- 
plant  of  tobacco,  and  the  severall  comanders  shall  here-  |)\cJ™?sre  ,han 
by  have  power  to  examine  the  truth    hereof  and  yf  any 
offend,  to  punish  the  servants  by  whippinge  and  tobindc  Penalty, 
over  the    masters  unto  the  next  quarter  cort  at  James 
Citty,  to   be  censured  by  the  Governor  and  Counsell. 
And  this  act  shall  continue  in  force  uutill  the  first  day 
01  March  next  ensuinge. 


190 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


No  slips  of  old 
stalk*  or  se- 
conds to  be 
tended. 

Penalty. 


Fourthlie,  If  is  ordered,  That  no  person  or  persons 
shall  tend  or  cause  to  be  tended  any  slippsofold 
stalkes  of  tobacco,  or  any  of  the  second  cropps  uppon 
the  forfeiture  of  his  whole  cropp  of  tobacco,  whereof 
one  halfe  to  be  to  the  informer  that  shall  sue  for  the 
same  in  any  cort  within  this  colony. 


Tobacco  ten- 
d  ■  td  in  pay- 
ment, how  to 
be  viewed. 


If  not  mer- 
chantable, to 
be  burnt. 


Penalty  on 
persons  re- 
fusing to 
view. 


ACT  XXL 

IT  is  likewise  ordeyned,That  yf  any  marchantor  any 
other  person  whatsoever  shall  hereafter  make  com- 
playnt  to  the  comander  of  the  place,  that  any  tobacco 
tendered  unto  him  or  them  is  not  good  and  marchanta- 
ble,  then  the  sayd  comander  is  hereby  required,  uppon 
penaUte  of  beinge  disabled  from  bearinge  any  office  in 
this  colony  for  one  whole  yeare,  and  further  censure  of 
the  Governor  and  Counsell,  to  make  choyceoftwo 
sufficient  men.  whom  he  shall  by  word  of  mouth  or 
warraut  un    r*     i      ?  Capt.  1  nomas  Usborne 
necke  oi  Liand  &  Curies  }        r 

fforShirleyHundredMayne  >  M     w^  A 
&  Cawses  Care.  } 

ffor  Shirley  Hundred  Hand — Mr.  Rice  Hooe. 

ftbr  Westover&ifflowerdue  Hund.— Capt.Thos.Paulett 

ffor  Wyanoake — Wm.  Emerson,  gent 


FEBRUARY,  1632-3 — Sth  CHARLES  1st  303 

(tor  James  Citty,  Checoho-  )  T  ,     >-,     . 

idu     i    •    i       >  John  Corker,  gent, 
minej-andrasbeyheignes  )  D 

fibr  Neckeof  Land — Thomas  Crumpe,  gent, 

ffor  Archers  Hope  &  Gleabe  )„  ^ 

Land  \  Hen'7  Cenc>''  Sent* 

ffor  Smythes  mount,  the  o-  ^ 

ther  side  of  the  water  and  >  Thomas  Grindon,  gent 
Hogg  Hand  ) 

ffor  Harropp  and  to  C  Richard  Brewster,       7 
Martins  Hand.       \  John  Wareliam.  ) 

a-     -mi     .•      vt      i     j  {  David  Mainsfield,       ) 
nor  Martins  Hundred    gents. 

£  Rob't  bcotehmore,     )  ° 

ifor  Mulbury  Hand     |  ^aj^^9^     ]  Sents' 

ffor  Stanley  Hundred  j|  R*^r  ^ilk"PRS'        ]  gents. 

-     -p.     ,.   ,  ^  Capt.  Thomasfflynt,  > 

nor  Denbigh  Wn  u      u*  t  gents. 

(  I  nomas  Hawkins,      $ 

*r     w  ,       (  John  Upton,         t      } 

ftor  WarroS(lu>'oake    1  Robert  Savin,      '      \S^s. 

ffor  Nutmegg  Quarter — ffrancis  Hough,  geni. 

ffor  the  upper  parts  of  (  Thomas  Sheppard,    ") 
Elizabeth  Citty       { John  Sipsey,  5 

ffor  the  lower  parts  of  (  William  English,        > 
Elizabeth  Citty       \  John  Arunell,  )  ° 

TCapt.  Edmund  Scarborough,  > 

ffor  Accaw- J' John  Howe,  ) 

macke      ]  Roger  Saunders.  ^  ° 

^John  Wilkinson,  $ 

ffor  Kiskyake — Capt.  Nichs.  Martian. 

ffor  Yorke — Lyonell  Goulston,  gent. 

ACT  I.* 

WHEREAS  divers  acts  and  orders  were  made  and 
established  in  the  Grand  Assembly  holden  at  James  Citty  Preamble 

*  The  acta  of  this  session   are  not  numbered  in  the   M3.  either  in 
♦he  margin  fthe  sayd  commissioners,  that  he  or  they 
have  kept  backe  from  the  sayd   stores  no  tobacco  of 
theire  cropp  or  croups,  except  such  as  is  reserved   for   Exception 
his  or  theire  owne  spendinge  to  use  in  his  familie. 

4thly,  The  sayd  live  stores  shall  be  kept  in  the  pla- 
ces followiijge,  vizt. 

At  James  Cittv,  at  Shirley  hund.  Hand,  Denbeigh,    At  what  pla- 
SouthamptoD  river  in  Elizabeth  Cittv,  and  Kiskyake,   ces,storesor 
vizt.  all  the  inhabitants  in  the  upper  parts,  as  lowe  as  ^tablished 
Weyanoake  shall  bringe  theire  tobacco  to  the  store  at 
Shirley  hund.  Hand,  and  the  inhabitants  from  Weyan- 
oake to  Stanley  hund.  and  Lawnes  Creeke  to  the  store 
at  James  Citty,   and  all   the  inhabitants  from  Stanley 
hund.  and  Laynes  Creeke  downe  to  Maries  Mount  to 
the  store  at  Denbigh.     And  all  the  inhabitants  of  Eli- 
zabeth Citt3',  Accowmacke  and  the  lie  of  Kent  to  the 
stores  in  Southampton  river. 

bthly.   Lastlie  all  the  inhabitants  of  Charles  river  to 
the  store  at  the  Rocks  agaynst  TindalPs  poynt. 

Noe  tobacco  uppon  payne  of  confiscation  after  the   Wha,  tob& 
publication  hereof,  shall  be  made  upp  in  rolle  except  go  may  be 
betweene  the  first  day  of  August  and  the  last  day  of  inafle  l,P  '" 
October,  and  noe  old  tobacco  shall  be  made  upp  upp- 
on the  like  payne  but  that   which  shall  be  cured   that 
present  yea  re. 

Qthly.  Be  it  further  ordered,  That  no  planter  or  mas-  Number  of 

tcr  of  a  familie,  shall  plant  or  cause  to  be  planted  above  plan's  pr-r 

1500  plants  per  pol ;  and  they  which  shall  not  plant  to-  J^' lin,it' 
bacco,  or  they  which  shall  be  otherwise  imployed,  may 

not  transfers  theire  proportion  of  plantinge  the  sayd  p. 

1.500  plants  or  any  part  thereof  unto  any  other  whome-  pitting  not 

ver.    And  as  neere  as  may  be  the  planters  shall  en-  ">  be  trans- 

deavour  themselves  to  plant  and  sowe  these  kindes  of  ,(r"'d- 
tobacco  which  are   of  the  longe  sortes,    and    all  other 

sorts  the  next  yeare  shall  be  quite  left  of,   and    given  u'h>lt  sort  of 

over:  and  to  prevent  any  greater  quantities  every  plan-  p\^C°  to 


>ac- 


206 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


Oops  of  to- 
bacco to  be 

viewed  and 
euituted-. 


Penalty  for 
negb-ct  or 
ex: 

pursers  of  shippinge  shall  deliver  uppon  oath  the  true 
contents  of  all  such  goods  as  are  imported  in  theire 
shipps;  and  that  they  have  discharged  none.  And  yf 
they  shall  finde  any  more  than  is  conteyned  in  the  in- 
vo\ce  which  they  shall  deliver,  they  shall  give  know- 
ledge thereof  before  thev  land  the  same.     And  further 

9  i  i     n   i  I  .  I      Searchers  t" 

to  that  purpose  searchers  shall  be  appoynted  to  search  be  appoill(. 
the  shipps  and  secret  places  of  the  sayd  shipps.  and  to   eri 
seize  all  concealed  goods.  *»w  ap-* 
inhabitants  of  Maries  Mount,  Elizabeth  Citty,  Accaw-  pointed 
macke  and  the  He  of  Kent.     And  the  seaventh  store  to  Al1  ti°!':.tcc° 
be  in  Charles  river,  for  the  inhabitants  of  Kiskyake,  jotheware- 
Jforke,  and  the  places  adioyninge.   And  the  comission-  houses  be- 
ers for  the  severall  parts  shall  take  care  to  see  sufficient  *?"* th. ij* st 
stores  built  and  able  store  keepers  appoynted  as  they  i„'be  inspect 
will  answer  the  contrary.     And  all  the  planters  shall  nff  the  quau- 

portion  ot  1500  plants  per  pol,  it  is  ordered  tnat  he  or  ,it* 

they  shall  forfeite  6d.  for  every  plant  soe  exceeded,  the 

one  halfe  of  which  forfeiture  shall  be  to   the  informer 

and  the  other  halfe  to  publique  uses.     And  further  to  ,nvoices  °J 

,  ,.  j»  i  i  •  goods  to  he 

avoyd  any  indirect  courses  to  frustrate  the  good  inten-  delivered. 
tion  of  this  act,  all  captay  nes,  masters  of  shipps  or  pur- 
sers, or  other  officers  whatsoever,  as  also  all  passengers, 
saylors  and  owners  of  any  goods  imported  into  this  co- 
lony, or  which  shall  as  factors  have  the  disposall  of  any 
such  goods  as  are  imported  for  sale  and  inarchandise, 
shall  deliver         places  oppoynted  at  James  Citty,  the 
true  contents  of  all  such  goods,  and  every  part  thereof 
in  particular  to  the  uttermost  of  theire  knowledge,  and 
that  they  have   not  disposed  nor  sold  any  of  the  said  ^V"  bc 
goods,  and  yf  in  case  they  shall  finde  after  such 
given  in    upon  oath  more  than  are   mentioned  in  the 
same   they  shall  give  knowledge  of  the  same  ;  which   p     . 
oath  yf  any  shall  refuse  to  take  then  he  shall  be  comit- 
ted  to  prison,  untill  he  shall  take  the  same  oath.    And  Searches  to 
further  it  is  ordered,  that  able  searchers  be  appoynted  be  appointed 
from  tyme   to   tyme  to    search    the    holds  and  secrett 
places  of  all  shipps  or  vessels  which  shall  import   any 
goods  as  aforesaid,  and  yf  the  said  searchers  shall  finde 
any  concealed  goods,  they  shall  give  notice  thereof  to 
the  Governor  and  Counsell  and  seize  them  into  theire 
hands. 


i!4 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


Vessels  arriv- 
ing not  to 
break  bulk 
till  they 
come  to  J. 
Citr. 


Penaitv. 


Duty  of  com- 
mandec  of 

fort. 


ACT  II. 

An  act  to  repeal  the  23d  act  made  the  4th  day  of  Sep- 
tember, 1632,  and  for  landinge  of  goods  at  James 
Citty  and  speed ie  repaire  of  shipps  thither,  and  dutie 
belonginge  to  the  present  comander  of  the  ffort. 

IT  is  ordered.  That  the  23d  act  made  the  4th  day 
of  September  1632  for  the  dischardgingeandunladinge 
of  all  shipps  at  James  Citty,  be  in  the  whole  and  every 
part  thereof  repealed;  and  that  this  act  in  place  there- 
of, with  such  additions  as  are  therein  conteyned  be  es- 
tablished and  concluded,  Be  it  therefore  enacted,  That 
every  shipp,  barque,  boate  or  vessell  arivinge  into  this 
colony  from  England  or  any  other  parts  whatsoever 
shall,  the  first  wynr]  and  weather,  sayleupp  to  the  port 
of  James  Citty,  and  shall  not  unlade  any  goods 

or  breake  any  bulke  before  she  shall  cast  anchor  there, 
upon  paine  that  thecaptayne,  master,  owner  or  pilott,  of 
thesaid  shipp.  barque,  boate,  or  vessell,  havingechardge 
and  command  of  the  samp,  shall  forfeite  the  said  goods, 
or  the  value  thereof,  and  shall  also  suffer  onemounthes 
imprisonment,  the  one  halfeof  which  forfeite  shall  be  to 
him  or  them  who  will  or  shall  sue  for  the  same,  in  any 
cort  within  this  colony,  and  the  other  halfe  to  public 
uses. — And  it  is  further  enacted,  That  the  present  co- 
mander of  the  ffort  at  Poynt  Comfort  or  his  deputie 
appoynted  to  thatpurpose,  upon  the  arivall  of  any  shipp, 
barque,  hoate  or  vessell  the  sea  without  the 

capes,    shall    immediatelie    make  his   repaire  aboard 

[Obliterated]  


Oaths  of  su-      comander  of  the  ffort  shall  administer  unto  them  and 
premacy  and     every  of  them  the  oathes  of  supremacy  and  allegiance, 

•t!le  repea  " 
and  of  none  effect  untill  it  shall  be  fittinge  to  re-esta- 
blish the  sayd  act.     And  for  such  mynisters  as  have 
not  this  yeare,  for  the  tyme  past,  taken  the  sayd  tythes 
of  the  20th  calfe,  kidd,  or  pigge,  It  is  also  ordered,         . 
That  the  composition  which  they  have  made  for  the   position  due 
same,  shall  be  paid  unto  the  said  mynisters  this  ensu-   to  be  paid, 
inge  cropp,  at  the  tyme  when  theire  tobacco  and  corne 
is  due  unto  them. 


ACT  XIV. 

An  act  act  for  the  alloivance  of  Sto?-e  Keepers. 

IT  is  ordered,  That  the  store  keepers  for  the  seaven 
stores  appoynted  by  the  Assembly  shall  have  1  per 
cent,  for  theire  care  in  keepinge  accounts  of  the  seve- 
rall  parcells  of  tobacco  receaved  into  these  stores  and 
theire  attendance  keepinge  the  keyes  and  carefull  look- 
inge  to  the  said  tobacco.  Audit  is  ordered,  That  the 
store  keeper  at  James  Citty  shall  have  1  per  cent,  of 
all  tobacco  which  shall  be  paid  to  any  marchants  for 
any  kinde  of  goods  bought  for  tobacco  at  James  Citty ; 
and  the  said  store  keeper  at  James  Citty  shall  keepe 
sealed  weights  and  lawfull  and  true  stilliards  allowed 
by  the  Governor  to  weigh  all  such  tobacco,  as  shall  passe 
out  of  the  said  store  for  goods  bought  at  James  Citty. 
And  the  said  1  lb.  of  tobacco  shall  be  borne  as  follovv- 
eth,  vizt.  one  moyetie  thereof  by  the  planters,  &i  one 
moyetie  by  the  marchant  or  partie  to  whom  the  said 
tobacco  shall  be  paid  as  aforesaid. 


Commission 
allowed  to 
the  store 
keepers. 


Allowance  to 
the  store 
keeper  at 
James  City. 


To  keep  seal 
ed  weights, 
and  lawful 
steelyards. 

Commission, 
how  paid. 


ACT  XV. 

in  act  for  the  payment  of  1-2  a  bus  he  11  of  Corne  to 
Caplayne  Mathewes. 

IT  is  ordered,  That  the  1-2  bushell  of  corne  which  Mode  of  col 

by  the  assembly  was  formerlie  given  to  Captayne  Sa-  lectiwgthe 

muell  Mathewes,  shall  be  brought  to  such  landinge  j^" d— all 

charitable  and  hall'the  good  to  be  burned.  Sothe  whole  ,i,e6ft*  aod 

quantitie made  would  come  to  l,&00000  without  strip-  r0t>ede- 

ing  and  smoothing:  and  next  2  years   1701b.  tobacco  strayed, 

per    poll  stript  and  smoothed    Was  to  be  made  which  Creditor  to 

would  make   in   the    whole  about  1, 3000001b,  and  all  eertuin  part 

creditors  wire  to  take  40ib.  for  a  hundred*.  »'  iiis  debt 

au)y 

ACT  II. 

NOE  man  to  be  obliged   to  perform  above  half  his  ! 

.  ^     .  P  .     *  .  ,  debturs 

venants  about  ireighting  tobacco  in  1639.  tobacci 


cov 


Reliel  ..; 

S,  Oil 

ceo  con 
tracts. 


ACT  111. 

\V  1 IERE  AS  by  reason  of  the  iate  proclamation  pro-  (. "{ ot'7trbi'oi 
hibiting  (until  further  order  from  this  Assembly)  all  and  creditor. 
trade  for  tobacco,  diverse  persons  were  indebted  for 
money  whose  debts  are  to  be  satisfied  in  tobacco  at  3d. 
per  pound  and  merchants  to  advance  but  30  per  cent, 
on  their  goods  and  both  debtor  and  creditor  to  be  ac- 
countable according  to  the  sale  of  the  tobacco  in  Eng- 
land or  the  debtor  mav  eonsign  hi*  tobacco  arid  pav 
money. 


ACT  P  . 

Limitation  ot 


AFTER  the  planters  debts   are  paid  they  shall  not  priceofto. 
lispose  of  the  remainder  of  their  tobacco  made  1039  bacco. 
"inder  3d.  per  pound  at  the  first  peny. 


ACT   Y. 
A  TUN  of  tobacco  to  consist  of  4  hhds.  and  if  any   Contents©! 

,■  i  •  i      i  c*c>  l»  °'  lobar 

master  ol  a  ship  exacted  above  Jib   per  tun  Ireiglit  he 


-  to  be  fined  at  pleasure  of  Governor  and  Council. 


CO. 


ACT  VI. 

AFTER  10th  May  debtors  to  make  tender  of  their   Howtobae- 
tobacco  before  the  viewers.  '."  ,"1b(" ,en 

2  & 


226 


Public  char- 
ges, minis- 
ters, &JC. 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 

ACT  VII. 

HOW  public  charges  and  impositions  is  to  be  paid, 
vizt.  ministers  IQJb.  per  poll  to  maintain  himself,  elk. 
and  sexton;  muster  master  gen'l.  31b;  capt.  of  the 
fort  and  ten  guards,  31b.  Two  lbs.  to  be  raised  next 
year,  to  build  a  new  fort  at  Point  Comfort  and  21b. 
more  to  build  a  state  house. 


Debtors  to 
pay  2  thirds 
of  their  debts 
only. 


ACT  VIII. 

NOT  to  pay  above  2  third*  of  their  debts  during  the 
stint. 


Price  of  to- 
bac-  o  made 
1640. 


ACT  IX. 

TOBACCO  made  1640  not  to  be  sold  under  12d 
per  pound  and  2s  per  lb.  next  year's  crop,  on  forfei- 
ture of  the  whole  crop. 


All  persons 
to  be  armed 
except  ne- 
groes 


ACT  X. 

ALL  persons  except  negroes  to  be  provided  with 
arms  and  atnunition  or  be  fined  at  pleasure  of  the  Go- 
vernor and  Council. 


Jauies  City 
the  metropo- 
lis. 


ACT  XI. 

JAMES  CITY  to  be  the  chief  town  and  Governor 
is  to  have  his  residence  there. 


ACT   Xll. 

Concerning  AN    act    against   buying  wine  or  liquors  repeal- 

wine.  efj_ 


ACT   XIII. 

Orchards.  AN  act  to  plant  orchards  made  in  1636  revived. 


JANUARY  1639-40— 14th  CHARLES  lsi. 


221 


ACT  XIV. 

ANY  person  may  export  to  New  England  or  other  A  certain 

neighboring  colon v  the  7th  head  of  neat  cattle  and  no  ProP°1,,on<>f 

°  .    °  i  '      i       i  i  i  cattle  may  be 

more  under  penalty  double  value.  exported 


ACT  XV. 

NO  person  to  buy  com  of  the  neighbouring  colonies   At  what  pri- 
or   Indians    unless    it    be  16s.    per   barrel,    and    then   ces  corn  may 

r  ,        .        r*,  ,  '  .      .  >  i     be  bought  fc 

must  first  obtain  Governors  commission  lor  it,  and  soid 
when  corn  is  under  12s.  by  such  commission,  may  ex- 
port it. 


ACT  XVI. 


Deeds  and 


A   DEED  or  mortgage  made  without  delivery   of  , 
possession  to  be  adjudged  fraudulent  unless  entered  in  when  deem- 
some  court. 


ed  fraudu- 
lent. 


ACT  XVII. 

AN  act  in  1637,  which  makes  it  felony  to  barter  with  Trading 
the  Indians  repealed,  and  etiacted  that  for  trading  with  with  the  In- 
them  for  arms  and  amunition  shall  be  felony,  and  for     lans 
other  commodities  imprisonment  at  discretion  of  the 
Governor  and  Council. 


ACT  XVIII. 
PLACES  to  be  paled  in  to  bury  the  dead  in 


Burying 
grounds. 


ACT  XIX. 

NO  sheriff  to  compell  any  man  to  go  off  the  planta- 
tion where  lie  lives  to  choose  burgisses. 


Burgesses, 
how  chosen: 


ACT  XX. 

CHURCH  wardens  to  present  to  monthly  courts,      Duty  of 

and  the  court  is  to  inflict  punishments  if  within  their  churchwar- 
dens, 
cognizance. 


22S 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA. 


Shooting  ami 

1 1 1 r 1 1 f  i •  1  •  j  ,   how 

exercised. 


ACT  XXI. 

NOT  to  shoot  or  hunt  on  other  men's  hind  that  t§ 
seated  and  bounds  marked  under  penalty  of  40s.  but 
may  pursue  deer  and  shoot  on  their  own  land. 


BouikI.'u  i.  ■ 
of  Is!e  of 
Wi»ht  and 
Lower  Nor- 
folk counties. 


ACT  XXII. 

WHAT  shall  be  the  bounds  of  Isle  of  Wight,  Up- 
per and  Lower  Norfolk  Counties. 


Hogs  to  be 

"onfined. 


ACT  XXIII. 

HOGGS  to  be  confined  in  pens  by  night  and  to  have 
keepers  by  day  or  owner  to  satisfie  all  damages  done 
by  them. 


Quitrents 
when  pay- 
able. 


ACT  XXIV. 

SEVEN  years  after  date  of  patents,  2s.  per  hundred 
acres  quitrents  to  be  paid  yearly,  at  some  convenient 
place  to  be  appointed  in  each  county. 


Kiskyake 

parish. 


ACT  XXV. 
CHISKIACK  to  be  a  parish. 


Demurrage 
of  vessels 


ACT  XXVI. 

NO  demorage  to  be  allowed  for  the  stay  of  ships — 
according  to  a  proclamation  for  stinting  and  regulating 
tobacco. 


ACT    XXVII. 

'  i-!  '.(  <>r  A  MAN   that  has  a  wife  or  child  in  England  that 

i  plant-     ^jjj  former]y  reside  here  may  be  allowed  a  proportion 
of  tobacco. 


Council  and 
si'rviiiits  ex- 
empted. 


ACT  XXVIII. 

COUNCIL  and  10  servants  each,  exempted  from 
publick  charges. 


JANUARY,  1639-40— 14th  CHARLES  1st.  229 

ACT  XXIX. 

THE  act  of  22d  8br.  lust  concerning  burgisses  char-   Burgesses 
ges  repealed,  and    the    act  in   1636  revived   instead   charSes 
thereof. 


ACT  XXX. 

MR.  Benjamin  Harrison  to  be  paid  £  7:  10:  0  Compensation 
sterling  instead  of  600  lb.  tobacco  due  from  the  pub-  ,0  '  arr,son' 
lick. 


ACT   XXXI. 

ORDINARY   keepers  to  have  instead  of  6  lb.  to-  Taverns  rat. 
bacco,  or  18d.  in  money  for  a  meale  or  gallon  of  beer  e    E 


J 


SQUIRES. 


The  names  of  the  Burgesses  for  the  severall  planta- 
tions are  as  followeth  : 


For  Henrico  county 


For  Charles  Citty  county 


Capt.  Mathew  Gough, 
Mr.  Arthur  Bayly, 
Mr.  Dan  :  Luellin. 

Mr.  Walter  Aston, 

M  r.  Tho.Stegg,  Speaker, 

Mr.  Walter  Chiles. 

Capt.  Robt.  Hutchinson: 


Mr.  Rowland  Sadler, 

,  Mr.  Hen.  Filmer, 
fr  or  James  Citty  county     y  church 

vies,  collections  ec  uisbursments  as  nave  hem  in  their  Wardens  on 
time  concerning  church  affairs  whereby  all  things  con-  oatl,jamesof 

Chescake  be  called  Hampton  Parish.  certain  pa- 

rishes chan- 
ge it  also  enacted  and  confirmed  for  the  convenien-  ^(esaforn?ed* 
ey  of  the  inhabitants  on    both  sides  of  Appomattock 
River  being  farr  remote  from  the  parish  church  of  the 
said  plantation  vpon  Appomattock  be  bounded  into  a 
parish  by  themselves   as  followeth,  to  beginn  at  Cau- 
son's  ffeild  within  the  mouth  of  Appomattock  River  on 
the  eastward  side,  and  at  Powell's  Creek  on  the  west- 
ward side  of  the   river,  and  so  to  extend  vp  the  river 
to  the  falls  on  both  sides  and  the  said  parish  to  be  call-   Bristol  parish 
ed  by  the  name  of  Bristoll. 

Be  it  also  enacted  and  confirmed  that  the  bounds  of  Weyanaakr 
the  parish  of  Weynoak  be  as  followeth,  beginning  at  Pansh- 
the  creek  called  David  Jone's  creek,  and  so  vpwards 
along  the  mayne  river  vnto  the  Oldrnan's  Creek,  and 
over  the  river  to  iilowerday  Hundred  and  so  downe 
the  river  on  that  side  the  water  vntoChippoak's  Creek 
where  Charles  Citty  county  endeth. 


252 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA. 


ACT  XVIII. 

Confirmation  Be  it  also  enacted  and  confirmed  vpon  consideration 

of  the  will  of  bad  of  the  godly  disposition  and  pood  intent  of  Ben- 
jamin Symms,  dec.  in  founding  by  his  hist  will  and 
testament  a  freeschool  in  Elizabeth,  county,  for  the  in- 
couragement  of  all  others  in  the  like  pious  perform- 
ances, that  the  said  will  and  testament  with  all  donati- 
ons therein  contained  concerning  the  ffreeschool  and 
the  scituation  thereof  in  the  said  county  and  the  land 
appurtcining  to  the  same,  shall  be  confirmed  according 
to  the  true  meaning  and  godiy  intent  of  the  said  testa- 
tor without  any  alienation  or  conversion  thereof  to 
any  place  or  county. 


Benjamin 

Sj  ;n!!is,  giv 
ing  lands  in 
Elizabeth 
City  lor  a 
free  school. 


Vacant  lots 
in  James  City 
to  he  built 
upon  by 

niters. 


ACT  XIX. 

WHEREAS  much  ground  intended  for  James  Cit- 
ty  hath  layen  long  deserted  by  the  antient  proprietors 
who  neither  build  themselves  nor -suffer  others,  This 
present  Grand  Assembly  doth  hereby  enact  and  conjirme 
that  all  such  that  have  built  decent  houses  vpon  ground 
so  deserted  towards  the  making  of  a  Towne  since  Ja- 
nuary 1G40  or  shall  add  more  to  them  after  publica- 
tion of  these  acts  shall  hold  them  without  interruption 
of  the  said  proprietors  or  any  of  them,  according  to 
the  custome  and  his  majesties  and  their  lordships  in- 
structions concerning  land,  Provided  allwaies  that  the 
said  antient  owner  shall  have  allotted  him  as  much 
ground  in  stead  thereof  as  near  the  towne  as  conveni- 
ently may  be,  Provided  allways  in  such  ground  so  de- 
serted such  as  shall  build  vpon  it  and  take  it  vpp  for 
themselves  shall  pay  to  his  majestie  all  such  and  the 
like  rent  or  rents  as  are  reserved  vpon  the  grant  to  the 
first  proprietor  as  in  the  case  of  other  land  deserted. 


Punishment 
on  servants 
marrying 
without 
leave  ot  their 
owner-a 


ACT  XX. 

WHEREAS  many  great  abuses  h  much  detriment 
have  been  found  to  arise  both  against  the  law  of  God 
and  likewise  to  the  service  of  manye  masters  of  fami- 
lies in  thecollony  occasioned  through  secret  marriages 
of  servants,  their  masters  and  mistresses  being  not 
any  ways  made  privy  thereto,  as  also  by  committing 


MARCH,  1642-3— 18th  CHARLES  1st.  253 

of  fornication,  for  preventing  the  like  abuses  hereafter, 
Be  it  enacted  and  confirmed  by  this  Grand  Assembly 
that  what  man  servant  soever  hath  since  January  1640 
or  hereafter  shall  secretly  marry  with  any  mayd  or  wo- 
man servant  without  the  consent  of  her  master  or  mis- 
tres  if  she  be  a  widow,  he  or  they  so  offending  shall  in 
the  first  place  serve  out  his  or  their  tyme  or  tymes  with 
!n's  or  their  masters  or  mistresses,  and  after  shall  serve 
his  or  their  master  or  mistress  one  compleat  year 
more  for  such  offence  committed,  And  the  mayd  or 
woman  servant  so  marrying  without  consent  as  afore- 
said shall  for  such  her  offence  double  the  tyme  of  ser- 
vice with  her  master  and  mistress,  And  a  ffreeman  so 
offending  shall  give  satisfaction  to  the  master  or  mis- 
tress by  doubling  the  value  of  the  service  and  payaffine 
of  five  hundred  pounds  of  tobacco  to  the  parish  where 
such  offence  shall  be  comitted,  And  it  is  also  further  Also  for  com- 
enacted  and  confirmed  by  the  authority  of  this  Grand  "V,t,ne  for' 

v\  rent !  0 11 

Assembly  that  if  any  man  servant  shall  comit  the  act  of 
fornication  with  any  mayd  or  woman  servant,  he  shall 
for  his  offence,  besides  the  punishment  by  the  law  ap- 
pointed in  like  cases,  give  satisfaction  for  the  losse  of 
her  service,  by  one  whole  year's  service,  when  he  shall 
be  free  from  his  master  according  to  his  indentures, 
\nd  if  it  so  fall  out  that  a  freeman  offend,  as  formerty 
he  shall  be  compelled  to  make  satisfaction  to  the  mas- 
ter or  mistris  of  the  said  woman  servant  by  his  service 
for  one  complrat  year,  or  otherwise  give  forthwith  such 
valuable  consideration  as  the  comissioners  in  their 
discretion  shall  think  fitt . 


ACT  XXI. 

WHEREAS  complaints  are  at  every  quarter  court  Penalty  for 
exhibited  against  divers  persons  who  entertain  and  harbouring 
enter  into  covenants  with  runaway  servants  and  free-  "Ji,,,6*1"! 

ii'iii  I  Willi   3  rllil" 

men  who  have  formerly  hired  themselves  to  others  to  away  servant 
the  great  prejudice  if  not  the  vtter  vndoeing  of  divers  or  hireling 
poor  men,  thereby  also  encourageing  servants  to  runn 
from  their  masters  and  obscure  themselves  in  some  re- 
mote plantations,  Vpon  consideration  had  for  the  fu- 
ture preventing  of  the  like  injurious  and  vnjust  deal- 
ings, Be  it  enacted  and  confirmed  that  what  person  or 
persons  soever  shall  entertain  any  person  as  hireling, 
or  sharer  or  vpon  any  other  conditions  for  one  whek 


♦254 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


yeare  without  certificate  from  the  commander  or  any- 
one commissioner  of  the  place,  that  he  or  she  is  free 
from  any  ingagement  of  service,  The  person  so  hireing 
without  such  certificate  as  aforesaid,  shall  for  every 
night  that  he  or  she  entertaineth  any  servant  either  as 
hireling  or  otherwise,  fforfeit  to  the  master  or  mistris 
of  the  said  servant  twenty  pounds  of  tobacco,  And  for 
evrie  freeman  which  he  or  she  entertaineth  (formerly 
hired  by  another)  for  a  year  as  aforesaid,  he  or  she  shall 
forfeit  to  the  party  wht  had  first  hired  him  twenty 
pounds  of  tobacco  for  every  night  deteyned.  And  for 
everie  freeman  which  he  or  she  entertaineth  (though 
he  hath  not  formerly  hired  himselfe  to  another)  with- 
out certificate  as  aforesaid,  And  in  all  these  cases  the 
party  hired  shall  receive  such  censure  and  punishment 
as  shall  be  thought  fitt  by  the  Governor  and  Counsell: 
All  ways  provided  that  if  any  such  runnaway.  servants 
or  hir^d  freemen  shall  produce  a  certificate,  wherein  it 
appears  that  they  are  freed  from  their  former  masters 
service  or  from  any  such  ingagement  respectively,  if 
afterwards  it  shall  be  proved  that  the  said  certificates 
are  counterfeit  then  the  retayner  not  to  suffer  according 
to  the  penalty  of  this  act,  But  such  punishment  shall 
be  inflicted  vpon  the  forger  and  procurer  thereof  as 
the  Governor  and  Council  shall  ihink  fitt. 


Runaway 
servants, 
how  punish- 
ed. 


For  a  second 
offence  to  he 
branded  on 


ACT  XXII. 

WHEREAS  there  are  divers  loytering  runaways 
in  the  collony  who  very  often  absent  themselves  from 
their  masters  service,  And  sometimes  in  two  or  three 
monthes  cannot  be  found,  whereby  their  said  masters 
are  at  great  charge  in  finding  them,  And  many  times 
even  to  the  losse  of  their  year's  labour  before  they  be 
had,  Be  it  therefore  enacted  and  confirmed  that  all  run- 
naways  that  shall  absent  themselves  from  their  said 
masters  service  shall  be  lyable  to  make  satisfaction  by 
service  at  the  end  of  their  tymes  by  indenture  (vizt.) 
double  the  tynie  of  service  soe  neglected,  And  in  some 
cases  more  if  the  comissioners  for  the  place  appointed 
shall  find  it  requisite  and  convenient.  And  if  such 
runnaways  shall  be  found  to  transgresse  the  second  time 
or  oftener  (if  it  shall  be  duely  proved  against  them) 
that  then  they  shall  be  branded  in  the  cheek  with  the 


MARCH,  1642-3— ISth  CHARLES  1st.  255 


letter  R.  and  passe  vnder  the  statute  of  incorrigible  the  cheek 

Willi  r 

terR. 


rogues.  Provided  notwithstanding  that  where  any  ser-  ' 


IOV1SO  111 


vants  shall  have  just  cause  of  complaint  against  their 
masters  or  mistrises  by  harsh  or  vnchristianlike  vsage  p 
or  otherways  for  want  of  diet,  or  convenient  necessa-   case  of  ill 
ryes  that  then  it  shall  be  lavvfull  for  any  such  servant  usage  of  mas- 
or  servants  to  rep  aire  to  the  next  comissioner  to  make 
his  or  their  complaint,   And  if  the  said  commissioner 
shall  find  by  good  and  sufficient  pioofes,  that  the  said 
servant's  cause  of  complaint  is  just,  The^aidcomission- 
er  is  hereby  required  to  give  order  for  the  warning  of 
any  such  master  or  mistris  before  the  comissioners  in 
their  seuerall  county  courts,  where  the  matter  in  differ- 
ence shall  be  decided  as  they  in  their  discretions  shall 
think  fitt,  And  that  care  be  had  that  no  such  servant 
or  servants  be  misvsed  by  their  masters  or  mistrises, 
where  they  shall  find  the  cause  of  complaint  to  be  just. 
Be  it  further  also  enacted  that  if  any  servant  running  Felony  to 
away  as  aforesaid  shall  carrie  either  peice,  powder  and  jei'&c"^ 
shott,  And  leave  either  all  or  any  of  them  with  the  In-  the  Indians 
dians,  And  being  thereof  lawfully  convicted  shall  suffer 
death  as  in  case  of  ffelony. 


ACT  XXIII. 

• 

BE  it  also  enacted  and  confirmed,  that  what  person  Penalty  fei 
or  persons  soever  shall  sell  or  barter  with  any  In-  selling  arms 
dian  or  Indians  for  peece,  powder  and  shott  and  being  [1!"™" 
thereof  law  fully  convicted,  shall  forfeit  his  whole  estate,   Indians,  or 
the  one  halfe  to  the  informer  the  other  halfe  to  the  vse  dealing  wiih 
of  the  county  where  such  ffact  shall  be  committed,  And 
if  any  person  shall  barter  or  trade  with  the  Indians  for 
any  other  comodities  such  person  shall  suffer  imprison- 
ment at  the  discretion  of  the  Governour  and  Counsel!, 
And  whereas  it  is  informed  that  divers  persons  do  en- 
tertaine  Indians  to  kill  deare  or  other  game,  And  do 
furnish  the  said  Indians  with  peeces,  powder  and  shott, 
by  which  great  abuse,  not  onely  the  Indians  (to  the 
great  iudangering  of  the  collony)  are  instructed  in  the 
vse  of  ovr  arms,  But  have  opportunity  given  them  to 
store  themselves  as  well  with  arms  as  powder  and  shott, 
Be  it  therefore  enacted,  That  what  person  or  peisons 
soever  within  the  collony,  shall  lend  any  Indian  either 
peece,  powder  and  shott,  It  shall   be  lawful!   for  any 
person  meeting  with  any  such  lndiau  so  furnished,  to 


256  LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 

take  away  either  peece,  powder  or  shott,  so  as  such  per- 
son taking  away  eilher  peece,  powder  or  shott  do  carric 
the  same  to  the  comander  of  the  county,  and  acquaint 
hirn  therewith,  which  said  comander  is  hereby  autho- 
rized to  give  possession  to  the  informer  either  of  the 
peece,  powder  or  shott  so  brought  before  him,  And 
the  said  commander  is  further  required,  to  make  a  strict 
inquiry  and  examination  to  find  out  such  person  that 
did  lend  or  give  such  peece,  powder  or  shott  to  the  In- 
dians, And  in  case  the  said  commander  or  other  com- 
manders in  examination  shall  find  any  person  by  just 
proofe  delinquent  in  the  premises,  he  or  they  are  to 
bind  over  the  said  party  to  answer  the  same,  before  the 
Governor  aud  Counsell  the  ensuing  quarter  court,  And 
in  such  case  the  party  delinquent  for  his  just  offence 
shall  forfeit  two  thousand  pounds  of  tobacco,  the  one 
halfe  whereof  shall  be  and  come  to  the  King's  majes- 
ty, tlie  other  halfe  to  the  informer,  And  it  is  further 
enacted  that  such  delinquent  for  his  second  offence 
shall  forfeit  his  whole  estate,  one  halfe  to  the  King  the 
other  halfe  to  the  informer.  And  this  act  to  be  of  force 
after  publication  hereof  in  each  county. 


ACT  XXIV. 

Process  THE  Governor  and  Counsell  with  the  Burgesse6  of 
ofs^'i'tei*1-"  the  Grand  Assembly  haveinge  taken  into  serious  con- 
rived  from  sideration  the  estate  of  the  colloiiy  and  finding  that 
England  many  people  have  (through  their  inffacrements  in  Ener- 

nsnended.  1       n  r         i        a.  •     '    «*  ,  a  i     a  u-.i 

land)  forsaken  their  native  countrey  and  repaired  hither 

with  resolution  to  abide  here,  hopeing  in  time  to  gain 
some  competency  of  subsistance  by  their  labors,  Yet 
neverth'les  their  creditors  hearing  of  their  aboad  here 
in  the  collony,  have  prosecuted  them  with  their  actions 
to  the  ruine  of  the  said  debtors,  And  having  duely 
weighed  the  causes  aud  reasons  induceing  such  debt- 
ors to  leave  their  countrey  and  friends,  And  if  such 
suits  and  pleas  be  thus  early  admitted  before  the  coun- 
trey shall  come  to  better  maturity,  It  might  hazard  the 
deserting  of  a  great  part  of  the  country,  Therefore  that 
the  generall  good  be  preferred  before  the  particular 
ends  of  any  person,  The  Governor,  Counsell  and  Bur- 
gesses do  hereby  enact  and  confirm,  that  all  process  & 
suits  of  thi«  nature  be  suspended  vntil  his  majestic  shall 


MARCH,  1642-3—  18th  CHARLES  1st.  357 

»ignifie  his  royal  pleasure  herein*  Provided  that  if  it  Proviso 
shall  appear  to  the  Governor  and  counsell  that  the  debts 
soe  impleaded  have  relation  to  the  collonv  either  for 
adventure  of  any  good&of  for  the  accomodation  of  any 
planter  in  or  for  his  return  into  the  collony,  Then  it 
shall  and  may  be  lawfull  for  any  creditor  vpon  just 
proofe  of  his  debt  to  have  such  releif  rs  in  justice  shall 
be  found  due.  Any  thing  in  this  act  to  the  contrary  not- 
withstanding-. 


ACT  XXV. 

BE  it  also  enacted  and  confirmed  that  the  order  of     Order  of 
court  made  the  8th  of  October  1030  for  the  grant  of  court  oi  1630 
land  to  the  Vndertakers  th  it  seated  the  first  and  second   S'JSJS.jT 
year  vpon  Chescak?  and  Yorke  be  hereby  ratified  and   seders  con- 
confirmed    vnto  the  said  vndertakers  according  to  the  fl,med- 
f-rue  intent  of  the  said  order. 


serve. 


ACT  XXVI. 

WHEREAS    divers  controversies   have  risen   be-  Servants 
tween  masters  and  servants  being  brought  into  the  col-   brought  in 
lony   without  indentures  or  covenants  to  testifie  their  jgnlu"^0 
agreements  whereby  both  masters  and  servants  have  howioiigto 
been    often   prejudiced,    Be   it   therefore  enacted  and 
confirmed  for  prevention  of  future  controversies  of  the 
like  nature,  that  such  servants  as  shall  be  imported 
haveing  no  in  lentures  or  covenants  either  men  or  wo- 
men if  they  be  above  twenty  year  old  to  serve  fowre 
year,  if  they  shall  be  above  twelve  and  vnder  twenty  to 
serve  five  years,  And  if  under  twelve  to  serve  seaven 
vears. 


ACT  XXVII. 

BE  it  further  enacted  and  confirmed  by  the  author i-  No  blank 

ty  aforesaid  that  no  blank  warrant  shall   be   made  or  JJJJJ'S*, 

executed    by    any    clerke  or  sheriffe  within  the  collo-  wnt  lo  be  dr- 

ny,    And    also   that  no  writ  or  process  be  directed  to  rectedto 

more  than  one  sheriffe  (vnles  against  felons  runnaway  ™ne' ^"J; 

2   I 


258 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


Proviso. 


servants  or  for  other  criminal  causes,)  And  for  such  as 
shall  be  found  delinquent  to  he  censured  by  the  Gov- 
ernor and  Counsell. 


ACT  XXVIII. 


Encourage- 
ment to 
Dun  h  mer- 
chants. 


lJuiies  how 
secured. 


Be  it  also   enacled  by  this  Grand  Assembly  that  H 
shall  he  free  and  lawful!  for  any   merchant,  factors  or 
others  of  the  Dutch  nation  to  import  wares  and  mer- 
chandizes and  to  trade  or  traffique  for  the  commodity's 
of  the  collony  in  any  shipp  or  shipps  of  their  owne  or 
belonging  to  the  Netherlands,  And  whereas  it  is  pre- 
tended  by  a  petition  exhibitted  to  this  Assembly  from 
Dutch  merchants  that  the  nation  is  much  discouraged 
from  adventuring  hither  by  reason  of  the  strict  course 
which  is  taken  here,  to  exact  bonds  with  security    for 
the   payment  of  his   majesties  custome  at  the  port  of 
London,  (which  security  they  being  strangers  is  very 
difficult  for  them  to  find   or  procure,)  Be  it  therefore 
enacted  and  established  hy   this  Grand  Assembly  and 
the  authority  of  the  same  that  what  Dutch  merchant 
shall  adventure  goods  and  merchandise  into  this  collo- 
ny and  shall  bring  in  with  them  good  and  sufficient  let- 
ters of  creditt  directed  to  the  Governor  from  some 
merchant  or  merchants  inhabiting  within  theCitty  of 
London  of  knowne  repute  and  ability   to  this  effect, 
that  the  said  merchant  from  such  letters  shall  come  will 
satifietohis  rnajest's  collectors  or  customers  such  dues 
and  demands  ;>s  >hall  1)e  (bund  due  to  be  paid  by  them, 
and  is  or   shall  be  thought  fitt  to  required  from  mer- 
chants of  that  nation  tradeiug  in  that  commodity  within 
the  kingdom   of  England  or  at  the   port  of  London, 
that    then  it  shall  be    free  and  lawful  I  for  such  Dutch 
merchant  to  exporte  his  tobacco  out  of  the  collony  with- 
out entring  into  any  bond  or  obligation  for  defraying 
any  custodies  or  without  any  stopp  or  hinderance,  then 
that  he  be  compelled  to  charge  bills  of  exchange  to  sa- 
tisfy according  to  the  tenor  and  effect  of  the  letter  of 
creditt.  And  it  is  further  lii<>v" 
want  of  his  or  their  boat,  boats  or  canoos. 


Creditors  su- 
ing their 
debtors  who 
have  tender- 
ed satisfac- 
tion, to  pay 
•~osts 


ACT  XLIV. 

WHEREAS  divers  suits  have  been  causelessly  com 
menced  when  satisfaction  hath  been  preferred,  Yef 
creditors  for  sundry  and  sinister  malicious  ends  have 
sued  their  debtors  to  the  further  charging  of  poor  men 
and  troubling  of  the  government,  Be  it  therefore  enact- 
ed and  confirmed  that  all  pits,  shall  demand  satisfac- 
tion for  what  the  claim  as  due  vnto  them  from  the 
partie  they  sue,  and  make  sufficient  and  legal  proofes 
of  such  demands  at  the  tyme  when  they  shall  sue.  to 
the  intent  that  if  such  satisfaction  hath  been  prefered 
as  the  court  shall  approve,  then  the  charges  by  such 
pits,  who  have  vnnecessarily  troubled  their  debtors. 


No  act  ot 
court  or  pro- 
clamation to 
contravene 
an  act  of  as- 
sembly. 


ACT  XLV. 

IT  is  enacted  and  confirmed  that  no  act  of  court  op 
proclamation  do  hereafter  enjoyne  any  obedience  con- 
trary to  an  act  of  Assembly  vnless  in  manner  of  seat- 
ing of  new  plantations,  Provided  that  no  refractory 
person  do  refuse  obedience  and  conformilie  to  an  act 
of  Assembly  vnder  any  pretence  whatsoever  vntil  the 
reversal  of  the  same  by  the  following  Assembly. 


Sheriff  of 
each  county 
'okeep  pri- 


ACT  XLVf. 


BE  it  enacted  and  confirmed  by  the  auihoritie  ajorc- 
said  that    the   sheriffs   of  the    several!    counties  re- 


MARCH,  1642-3— 18th  CHARLES  1st.  265 

spectively  shall  delaine  and  keep  all  sueh  prisoners  as  sonars  for  tr*> 

shall  from  time  to  tyme  happen  to  be  within  the  said   S"f,he 
several!  counties  as  thereto  have  their  try  all  before  the  quarter  court 
Governor  and  Counsel!  att  Ja  :  Cittv  vntill  the  first  day  p  sent 

ove  live  days  alter  warning  given  tor  his  departure   oul  „,  lll(. 

by  the  Governour  or  comander  of  the  place  where  he  collonyinj5 

or  they  shall   bee,  if  wind  and  weather  hinder  not  his  tla-vs- 

departure,  And  that  the  said  act  should  be  in  force  ten 

da\s  alter  the  publication  thereof,  at  James  City,  this 

present   Grand  Assembly  to  all  intents  and  purposes 

doth  hereby  confirm  the  same. 


ACT  LII. 

WHEREAS  for  the  more  ease  of  travellers,  It  was  Ferries  and 

enacted  bv  the  Assembly  in  Jan.   1641,  that  all   ths  ,,ri,lf 's1to1be 

.      ,  J  .  ,  ,         ;       1     «,  ,    established 

countrey  respectively  provide  and  maintain  fferrys  and  an'ic  ex- 
be  made  by  the  comissioners  where  the  fferry  is  kept,  pense 
And  where  one  creeke  parts  two  counties,  there  each 
of  them  to  contribute  towards  the  maintenance  of  the 
said  fferries,  and  bridges  should  be  built  and  provided 
by  the  first  of  September  following,  Ami  that  all  pas- 
sengers whether  strangers  or  others  should  be  freed 
from  payment  otherwise  then  by  the  leavie,  And  that 
the  fferrymen  should  give  their  due  attendance  from 
sunne  rising  to  sunne  setting,  This  present  Grand  As- 
sembly to  all  intents  and  purposes  doth  hereby  conjirme 
the  same. 


ACT  LIU. 

WHEREAS  at  an  Assembly  in  June  1642,  vpon  Dealing  with 
consideration    had    of   the   bad   effects  that   tradeing  minors  pro- 
and  trucking  with  orphants  may  in  time  produce,   It  ,;'0;U,,,  ""- 
was  thought  fill  in  due  time  so  to  provide  that  for  the  0f  double  the 
future  no  sucli  bartering  or  tradeing  be  at  all  had  with  amount, 
any  orphans.   And  therefore  did  enact  that  what  per- 


270 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


son  or  persons  soever  shall  barter,  bargain,  buy  or  sell 
with  any  orphants  vnder  age  shall  loose  all  that  he  so 
bartereth  or  changeth  and  shall  alsoe  forfeit  double  the 
quautitie  thereof,  the  one  moyetie  to  the  informer,  the 
other  to  his  ma'tie,  This  present  Grand  Assembly  to 
all  intents  and  purposes  doth  hereby  ratify  e  and  confirm?, 
the  same. 


"Punishment 
for  resisting 
the  execution 
o(  laws. 


ACT  L1V. 

WHEREAS  it  was  enacted  att  an  Assembly  in  June 
1642  that  if  any  officer  or  other  member  of  this  collony 
whatsoever  had  been  or  should  be  molested  or  troubled 
in  their  persons  or  estates  for  the  due  performance  and 
execution  of  any  act  or  law  made,  here  in  the  collony, 
he  or  they  by  whom  any  person  should  be  troubled 
should  be  liable  to  saiisfie  all  such  charges  and  dama- 
ges as  should  be  justly  proved  to  be  occasioned  by  any 
such  molestation,  in  the  severail  courts  of  this  collony 
respectively,  This  present  Grand  Assembly  dolh  here- 
by ratifie  and  confirme  the  same. 


Quarter 
courts,  terms 
of 


March  term. 


Returns. 


ACT  LV. 

WHEREAS  it  was  enacted  at  an  Assembly  in  June 
1642  for  want  of  due  formes  not  before  sett  downe,  for 
issueing  of  writs  and  returnes  thereof  for  the  proceed- 
ing of  the  quarter  courts  of  this  collony,  in  case  of  de- 
falts  of  sherrifi's  and  nonappearances  of  pits,  and  defts. 
which  occasioned  much  trouble  to  the  Government  and 
great  charge  of  inhabitants  of  the  collony,  That  the 
quarter  court  shall  begin  as  foil  : 

March  court  t,o  begin  the  first  day  of  the  month  of 
March,  if  it  be  not  Sunday  if  it  be  then  on  the  next  day. 
to  continue  eighteen  days,  Sunday  not  to  be  account- 
ed as  any  of  the  cort  days. 

The  said  court  to  have  three  returnes,  the  first  re- 
turne  to  be  made  three  days  before  the  first  day  of  the 
sitting  of  the  court. 

The  second  retume  on  the  sixth  of  the  court. 

The  third  on  the  12th  of  the  court:  for  every  re- 
turne  150  writs  that  is  for  everie  day  of  the  court  25 
warrants. 


MARCH,  1642-3— 18th  CHARLES  1st.  271 

June  court  to  beginn  vpon  the   first  day  of  June  in  June  term, 
case  it  be  not  Sonday,  then  on  the  next  day:  to  con- 
tinue 10  dayes  to  have  two  returnes : 

The  first  returne  to  be  made  three  days  before  the  Returns 
tirst  day  of  the  court,  The  second  on  the  6th  of  the 
court  to  have  ascertained  200  writts,  one  hundred  for 
every  returne  that  is  20  for  every  day. 

•  The  like   days   for  beginning  and  ending,  the  like  Oct.  term 
returnes    and    numbers  of  writs   for  October  court  as  Returns 
for  June  court 

The  4th  court   to  begin  on  the  20th  of  November  if  Nov.  term 
not  Sunday,  if  it  be  then  on  the  next  day  following  to 
continue    and    have    the  like   returnes  and  number  of  Returns 
writs  and  days  as  March  court  hath. 

The  writs  to  comand  appearance  vpon  the  first,  se-  Writs 
cond  or  third  of  the  first,   second  or  third  returne  ac- 
cording to  the  date  thereof. 

The  causes  of  suits  to  be  exprest  in  the  writs  which  Causes  ot 
may  be  inlarged  by  petition,  between  every  arrest  and  ^^"r^sed 
return  of  the  writt.  i„. 

The  deft,  to  have  10  days  time  to  provide  himselfo      Arrests, 

No  arrest  to  be  made  in  court  time.    The  writs  to  go  wh,M  and 

in  the  same  tenor  as  formerly,  The  deft,  vpon  the  re-  wlere" 

turne  of  the  writ,  either  by  himselfe  or  his  attorney,  to 

enter  his  appearance  in  a  booke  tobekeptby  theclerke  made  in 

for  that  purpose,  And    also   putt  in  his  answer  vnder  court  time. 

his  hand  the  third  day  of  the  returnes  of  the  writ,   the 

petitions    and  answers  to   be  filled  and  remain  in  the   APPcarance 
,       &•  and  defence- 

secretary  s  office. 

The  pit.  to  put  in  his  petition  vpon  the  day  of  appear-  When  to  de 

auce  and  in  case  of  such  neglect  to  be  non  suited,  And  clare 
the   defendt's.  cost  to   be  awarded  against  him,  If  the 
deft,  appears   not  after  arrest,  then  the  sheriff  to  be 

amerced  in  tobacco  at  the  discretion  of  the  court  to  the  Sheriff  amev- 

vse  of  the  county,  And  the  sherrifls  to  have  their  re-  «d if  deft. 
medies  against  the  parties  bound  for  appearance. [a] 

[a]  This  clause  repealed  by  a  subsequent  one  in  this  act  ;  and  the 
defendant  fined  20  per  cent 


pear: 


272 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


an  I  for  de- 
fault of  re- 
turns. 

Teste  of  pro- 
cess h  exe- 
cution. 


Appeal  from 
monthly  to 
quarter 
courts. 
Security. 
Doable  da- 
mages. 

Appeal  from 
quarter 
courts  to  as- 
sembly. 

Treble  da- 
mages. 

Former  act 
amercing 
sheriff  lor 
non-appear- 
ance of  deft, 
repealed. 

Nil  dicit. 


The  sherriffs  for  defaults  of  non  returnes  to  be 
amerced  foreverie  returne  an  hundred  pound  of  tobac- 
co, Process  and*  executions  issueing  from  the  quarter 
courts  to  be  signed  by  the  Governour  and  attested  by 
the  Secretary,  to  go  in  the  same  forme,  and  no  execu- 
tion to  be  directed  to  more  then  one  sherifte. 

Appeals  to  be  from  the  monethly  courts  to  the  quar- 
ter courts,  The  appealant  to  pntt  in  present  security 
for  his  appearance  vpon  the  day  of  the  quarter  court 
for  his  abideingjudgment  of  the  court,  and  for  the  pay- 
ment of  double  damages  in  case  he  be  cast  in  the  suit. 

Appeales  to  lie  from  the  quarter  courts  to  the  As- 
semblies with  the  former  cautious  and  trebbledamagess 
in  case  he  be  cast  in  the  suit ;  which  said  act  and  evene 
clause  therein  is  confirmed  by  this  Grand  Assembly, 
excepting  the  branch  therein  mentioned  which  imposeth 
a  Jine  vpon  sherriffs  for  nun  appearance  of  the  dc- 
fendUs,  And  in  stead  and  place  thereof  be  it  enacted 
that  in  case  the  defts.  appeareth  not  after  arrests  either 
by  himselfe  or  attorney,  for  the  first  default  such  per- 
son shall  be  adjudged  by  the  court  wherein  the  suit  is 
depending  to  pay  vnto  the  pit.  201b.  of  tobacco  for  eve- 
ry hundred  debt,  for  which  he  is  then  impleaded,  And 
for  the  second  default  of  such  defts,  The  court  as  afore- 
said to  give  judgment  as  in  case  of  nihil  dicet. 


Jurisdiction 
of  monthly 
courts. 


Court  days. 


ACT  LVL 

WHEREAS  it  was  enacted  at  an  Assembly  in  June 
1642  that  the  comissioners  of  the  severall  counties 
respectively  should  have  power  anil  authoritie  to 
hear  and  determine  all  debts  and  difTerences  vnder  the 
sumtne  of  sixteen  hundred  pounds  of  tobacco  or  the 
valew  thereof,  Where  also.  It  was  enacted  at  the  said 
Assembly  thateverie  monthly  court  respectively  should 
keep  their  courts  monthly  vpon  the  severall  days 
therein  mentioned  (vizt.) 

Henrico  on  the  first  of  everie  month. 
Charles  Citty  the  3d 


*  "  Passes  an"  in  the  MS 


uARCH,   1642-3— i8th  CHARLES  1st  273 

Ja:  County  the  Gtli 

Isle  of  Wight  the  9th 

Vpptr  Nurff.  the  12th 

Lower  Norff  the  J  5th 

Eliz'a.  Countie  the  IStli 

W'arui;  k  Counlie  the  2lst 

York  (  !ounty  the  2-!th 

Norths' tun  the  28th  ofevcrie  montii. 

Be  it  enacted  this  present  Grand  Assembly  that  the      Number  of 
said  monthly   courts  be  reduced  to  the  number  of  six   courts  reduo 
yearly,  the   daies  to  be  ascertained  as  formerly,  And    r^anfff"" 
in  stead  of  monthly  courts  to  cail  coiinfie  courts,  and   sfead  of 
the  comissioners  to  be  stiled  comissiouers  of  the  c  nun  tie   "irt;l'%  »°  b« 

„„  i        tobe 
do   take  enre  that  all   nonconformists  vpon  notice  of  compelled  to 

them  shall  be  compelled  to  depart  the  collony  with  all  cXnv. 
convenience. 


ACT  LXV. 

,  .     ~  .     _  Burgesses  of 

IT  is  enacted  and  consented  to  by  this  brand  Jisstm-  upper  Nor- 

bly,  that  the  county  of  Vpper  JNoril'.  shall  have  power  folk  to  be 

and    priviledge   to    chuse  Burgesses   for   the  severall  j^^e'l^iits 

parishes  within  tlie  limitts  of  the  said  parishes,  ofeachp.t- 

ris!:. 


ACT    LXVI. 

WHEREAS  it  was  enacted  at  an  Assembly  in  Jan:   Lane's  creek 
1639,   that   the   inhabitants  of  Lanes  Creeke  should   Pa,ish-  act 

ii-  -i  ii  •  i  •    i  i  concerning 

reduced  nuo  a  parish,  and  the  said  parish  to  begiun  repealed 
from  the  mouth  of  Hogg  Island  creeke  along  the 
river  to  Lanes  Creeke,  And  from  Lanes  Creeke  to 
the  head  of  the  vppermost  branches  of  the  said  creeke, 
and  from  the  head  of  the  branches  of  Lanes  Creeke  to 
the  head  of  the  branches  of  Chippoaks  Creeke  westerly, 
and  thence  to  the  mouth  of  Chippoaks  Creeke,  and  from 
thence  to  Hogg  Island  Creeke,  and  that  it  should  be 


276 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


Distinct  pa- 
rish formed. 


Boundaries 
of. 


lawfull  and  free  for  the  inhabitants  of  Hogg  Island  in 
respect  of  the  remoteness  of  church  of  Ja  :  Cittie,  to 
which  parish  they  belong,  to  provide  themselves  of  a 
minister  at  their  owne  charge  without  any  allowance  to 
the  said  minister  from  the  parson  of  Ja:  Citty,  wherein 
also  it  was  provided  that  they  should  pay  as  full  and 
ample  contribution  to  the  building  of  a  church  at  Ja: 
Citty  as  the  rest  of  the  parish  of  Ja :  Citty  should  be 
rated,  It  is  thought  litt  by  this  Assembly  that  the  said 
act  be  wholly  repealed,  And  in  stead  and  place  thereof 
be  it  enacted  in  consideration  of  the  disabilitie  of  the 
said  inhabitants  to  maintain  a  minister  of  their  owne, 
and  to  contribute  to  the  minister  of  Ja  :  Citty,  whence 
they  receive  no  spiritual  benefit,  that  the  said  Chippoaks 
be  reduced  into  an  absolute  parish  without  any  relation 
to  the  parish  of  James  Citty,  the  bounds  of  the  said 
parish  to  be  southeast  vpon  the  parish  of  Lanes  Creek, 
Aud  northwest  vpon  the  Suncken  Marish  and  northeast 
vpon  James  River. 


Wa'lingford 
parish,  boun- 
daries of. 


ACT  LXV1I. 

WHEREAS  alsoe  it  was  enacted  at  an  Assembly  in 
June  1642,  That  the  inhabitants  of  Mrs.  Edlow's  di- 
vident  lying  above  Sandy  Poynt  should  be  taken  and 
admitted  vnto  the  parish  of  Wallingford :  It  is  now 
further  enacted,  That  David  Jones'  Creeke  be  the  vt- 
most  bounds  of  the  said  parish,  including  the  whole 
divident  of  Mr.  Rice  Hoe. 


Lower  side 
of  Water's 
creek,  dis- 
tinct parish. 


ACT  LXVII1. 

BE  it  also  enacted  and  confirmed  that  the  inhabitants 
of  the  lower  side  of  Waters  Creek  downewards  to  the 
vttermost  extent  of  Warwich  Countie  shall  be  a  distinct 
parish  of  themselves  and  injoy  all  the  priviledges  of  a 
parish  without  any  dependence  or  relation  to  the  parish 
of  Denbigh  or  any  other  parish  whatsoever. 


ACT  LXIX. 

county  divid-         WHEREAS   it  was   ordered  at  a  Grand  Assem- 
cd  into  pa-       biy  m  june  1642,  That  the  comissioners  of  the  Isle 

rishes. 


MARCH,  1642-3— 18th  CHARLES  1st. 

of  Weight  should  provide  and  allow  surveyors  to  lay 
out  the  county  according  to  the  former  grants  and 
bounds,  not  infringing  the  liberties  of  any  other  countie, 
and  alsoe  that  the  said  comissioners  should  make  a  di- 
vision of  the  said  countie  into  two  parishes  and  pro- 
duce the  severall  bounds  thereof  the  next  Grand  As- 
sembly to  be  confirmed  by  an  act,  Provided  that  the 
profitts  of  the  whole  countie  shall  remaine  vnto  Mr. 
Falkner,  Clerke,  duringe  his  residence  there,  Notwith- 
standing any  other  minister  that  should  be  imployed 
in  any  of  the  said  parishes  in  the  intrim,  In  conformity 
to  which  said  act,  the  comissioners  of  the  said  county 
have  returned  to  this  assembly  the  division  of  the  said 
county  into  two  parishes  (vizt.)  The  vpper  and  lower 
parish.  The  vpper  parish  to  extend  from  Lawens 
Creeke  to  the  eastern  side  of  the  Bay,  the  creeke  devide- 
ing  the  plantation  of  Sam.  Davis  and  Joseph  Cobbs  to 
be  the  extent  and  division  of  the  said  vpper  parish  i 
The  lower  parish  to  extend  from  the  Pagan-poynt  vpon 
the  river  side  to  the  plantation  of  Rich.  Hayes,  from  the 
Pagan-poynt  vppon  the  bay  including  all  the  southerly 
side  to  the  plantation  of  the  said  Cobbs,  and  that  all 
the  inhabitants  alreadie  resideinge  or  that  hereafter  shall 
reside  on  that  side  to  belong  to  the  said  lower  parish  : 
Provided  allwaies  that  they  shall  not  pay  above  double 
tithes  in  the  whole,  which  is  accordingly  enacted  by 
this  present  Grand  Assembty. 


279 


ACT  LXX. 

IT  is  enacted  by  the  authoritie  aforesaid  that  there  Revenue  law 
be  leavied,  this  present  crop,  nine  pounds  of  tobacco  of  1643-4. 
per  poll,  for  every  tithable  person  throughout  the  col- 
lony,  by  the  sheriffs  as  formerly,  to  be  disposed  of  in 
such  manner  and  to  such  vses  according  to  the  order 
of  this  present  Grand  Assembly. 


ACT  LXXI. 

IT  is  enacted  by  this  present  Grand  Assembly  that  Members 

those   of  his  ma'ts.  counsell  for  the  collony  shall  ac-  of  council  ex. 

cording   to   his  said  maj'ts.  instructions  be  freely  ex-  Siifn  ex™ 

empted    from   all    publick  charges  and  taxes,  church  cept  church 

duties  onely  excepted.  duties. 


280 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


Quit  rents, 
when  to 
eommence. 


ACT  LXXII. 

WHEREAS  it  was  enarted  at  an  Assembly  in  Jan. 
1640,  in  explanation  of  the  time  when  quit  rents  vpon 
grants  of  land  are  due,  That  all  those  grants  that 
were  of  seaven  years  continuance  or  above  were  to  be- 
ginn  their  payments  (vizt.)  Their  hist  vear's  payment 
at  the  ffeast  of  St.  Michael  the  archangel  1639:  and 
soe  forwards  and  that  all  other  grant*  should  have  the 
benefit  to  he  free  from  quit  rents  vntil  seaven  years 
after  their  first  grant,  whidh  is  enacted  and  confirmed 
by  this  present  Grand  Assembly. 


Recital  of 
the  troubles 
hi  England, 
as  the  cause 
of  the  gov's, 
pension  from 
the  King  be- 
ing suspend- 
ed. 


The  assem- 
bly deter- 
mine to  grant 
bim  accom- 
modation ; 
but  declare 
that  the  act 
is  not  to  be 
drawn  into 
orecedent. 


ACT  LXXIII. 

WHEREAS  through  the  vnkind  differences  now  in 
England,*  It  may  be  with  great  reason  be  assured  to 
the   most   scrupulous  that  the  several)  pension  and  al- 
lowance  from    his    ma'tie    to    the    Goveruour  of  this 
place,  is  for  this  present  withdrawn  and  suspended,  & 
that  therefore   for  the  stfstentation  and  support  of  the 
honour  of  this  place  of  gov'r.  in  accomodation  from  the 
plantation  incleare  and  absolute  tennes  of  necessitie  is 
required  and  inforced,  Yet  nevertheles  this     present 
Grand  Assembly  together  and  eye  to  the  honour  of  the 
place,  haveingalsoeentred  into  a  deep  sense  and  consi- 
deration of  the  duty  and  trust  which  the  publique  votes 
and  suffrages  have  cast  vpon  them,  vnder  whirh  is  com- 
prehended a*  the  most  spe«iall  and  binding  obligation, 
the  preservation  of  the  rights  and  properties  of  the  peo- 
ple, to   which  this  course    how  intended  may  seem  to 
threaten  violence  however  rather  innovated  in  the  rr.an- 
er  and  circumstance  then  in  value  and  substance,   Yet 
as  well  for  the  silenceing  of  pretences  as  for  answear- 
ing  of  arguments  of  weight,  It  is  thought  jitt  hereby  to 
declare  that   as  from  the  infancy  of  the  collony  there 
was  never  the  like  concurrence  and  pressure  of  afiairs, 
which  they  likewise  hope  and  pray  to  Almighty  God  to 
from  his  ma'tie.  and  his  ma'tie's  King- 


"I'Thia-has  an  allusion  to  the  civil  war  in  England,  between  Charles 
the  Ctxft  and  his  par'iatrient ;  which  commenced  in  1642,  aiid  nhotri 
this  ifmc  was  ragiiig'at  its  full  height.  It  terminated  hi  164&;  with  I  be 
death  of  Charles  and  Hie  aboKtion  of  monarchy  i  whereupon  Crom- 
well was  declared  Protector: 


MARCH,  164-2-3— ISth  CHARLES  1st.  231 

Jom,  soe  they  have  recorded  to  the  posteritie  with  this 
ensueing  president  of  accomodation  for  the  Governour, 
That  the  aforesaid  instance  and  motives  removed  they 
will  never  yeild  or  consent  to  receive  the  same.   This 
present  Grand  Assembly  hath  heretofore  enacted  that 
the  present  accomodation  shall  be  as  followeth  (vizt.)  Levy  for  tlie 
That  there  be  leavied  for  the  said  Governour's  accomo-  governor's 
dation  for  this  present  year  1643,  2  shillings  a  head  for  a.cn«noda- 
every  tithable  person  in  the  collony  to  be  paid  in  provi- 
sion as  hereafter  mentioned  at  these  rates  (vizt.) 

Indian  corne  at  10s.  per  barrell — 2  barr.  of  ears  to 

one  of  corne.  Of  what  to 

Wheat  at  4s.  per  bushell.  ™™** and 

Malt  at  4s.  per  bushell.  counties  pay- 

Beife  at  3d.  l-2d.  per  pound.  able. 

Porke  at  4d.  per  pound. 
Good  henns  at  l2d. 
Capons  at  Is.  6d. 
Calves  at  6  weeks  old  25s. 
Butter  at  8d.  per  pound. 
Good  weather  goats  at  20s. 

Piggs  to  roast  at  3  weekes  old  at  3s.  per  pigg — 
Cheese  at  6d.  per  lb. — Geese,  Turkeys  and  Kidds  at 
5s.  per  peece. 

The  provision  of  corne  to  be  leavied  out  of  these 
counties : 

Henrico,  North'ton,  Eliza.  Cittie,  Lower  Norff. 
Vpper  Norff.  Yorke  including  Peanketank. 

These  counties  to  pay  the  other  provision : 
Charles  Cittie,  Ja  :  Cittie,  Isle  of  Wight,  and  War- 
wicke. 

Ffor  collecting  hereof  it  is  hereby  enacted  by  this  How  collect- 
Grand  Assembly  that  vpon  the  Governour's  notice  of*1- 
the  severall  countie  courts  :  allowing  the  reasonable 
time  that  the  leavie  the  said  severall  proportions,  alike 
proportionably  as  aforesaid  in  2  places  in  evrie  parish 
within  the  severall  counties  respectively :  And  the  slier- 
riffeof  the  severall  counties  with  the  assistance  of  the 
constables  of  the  limitts  are  to  give  notice  to  the  inha- 
bitants, after  the  said  provision  is  to  be  leavied,  to  bring 
in  their  severall  proportions  to  the  said  severall  places 
by  them  appointed  as  aforesaid,  And  in  case  of  refusall 

2  M 


282 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


to  distrain  vppon  the  estates  of  such  who  shall  be  de- 
linquent in  payment,  and  bringing  it  to  the  aforesaid 
places  for  satisfaction  thereof,  And  the  said  sherriffs 
after  such  collection  are  hereby  enabled  to  hire  boats, 
and  men,  to  bring  the  same  to  James  Cittie  to  the 
Governour's.  And  their  several  disbursments  and 
charges  therein  expended  to  be  putt  to  account  and 
presented  to  the  next  Grand  Assembly  to  be  satisfied 
out  of  the  leavie. 

WILLIAM  BERKELEY. 


ATT    A 


^SffiHDB&Tr 


HOLDEN    AT    JaMES  ClTTIE    THE   FIRST  OF  OcTOBEF- 

1644. 


tTTThcMS. 
from  which 
the  acts  of 
this  session 
were  printed, 
is  now  in  the 
library  of 
Congress  at 
Washington, 


[From  a  MS.  received  from  Edmund  Randolph,  Esq. 
which  was  once  the  property  of  Sir  John  Randolph, 
who  transmitted  it  to  his  son  Peyton  Randolph,  Esq. 
after  whose  death,  it  was  purchased,  with  his  library, 
hy  Thomas  Jefferson,  Esq.  from  whom  it  was  bor- 
rowed by  Edmund  Randolph,  Esq.~\ 

PRESENT  Richard  Kempp,  Esquire,  Govern- 
or, &c. 

Capt.  Win.  Claiborne, 
Capt.  Wm.  Peirce, 
Capt.  Hen.  Browne, 
Capt.  Wm.  Brocas, 
Mr.  Geo  :  Mi  nine, 
Mr.  Rich.  Bennett, 
Capt.  Hum.  Higgison, 
Capt.  Wm.  Bernard, 
Mr.  Geo.  Ludlow, 
Capt.  Rich.  Townesend, 


y     Esq,viREa, 


OCTOBER,  1644— 19th  CHARLES  1st. 


i83 


James  Citty  countie 


The  names  of  the  Burgesses  for  the  several!  plantations  : 

f  Capt.  Rob't.Hutchinson, 
J  Mr.  Stephen  Webb, 
|  Mr.  Edward  Travis, 
«^  Mr.  Thos.  Loveing, 
Mr.  George  Jordan, 
Mr.  John  Shepherd, 
Mr.  Thomas  Warren. 

(  Mr.  John  Chew, 

  expedition* 
dred  eighty-seaven  persons  to  pay  4122  pounds  of  to-  |,^il"ls1!!  Mr.  Arthur  Smith, 
For  the  Isle  of  Wight  |  Mr  ^  Hardy' 


ForVpper  Norff, 


For  Elizabeth  Citty 


For  Northampton 


For  Lower  Norfolk 


  vertue  of  the  former  grants  or  planting  of  building  it 

He  same  from  the  expiration  of  the  first  seaven  years 


■zm 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA. 


Certain 
counties  as- 
sociated to 
carry  on  the 
war  against 
the  Indians. 


Council  of 
war. 


T  If  tir  power. 


How  punish- 
ed  for  abuse 

of  power. 


Every  li? 
fithables  to 
furnish  a  sol- 
dier for  car- 
rying on  the 
war  on  the 
north  side  of 
the  river. 

Who  are 

deemed  ti' 

,'iMes. 

Penalty  fo. 
concealing 
tithables. 

When  the 
council  of 
war  may 
press  men. 


ACT  VIII. 

BE  it  enacted  by  the  Governour,  Counsell  and  Bur- 
gesses oj  this  Grand  Assembly  that  the  three  countys  of 
Isle  of  Wight,  Vpper  Norff:  and  Lower  Norff:  shall 
prosecute  the  enemie  and  defend  those  parts  from  Vp- 
per Chipoaks  downewards  by  constant  marches  vpon 
the  Indians,  And  the  inhabitants  of  LawnesCreeke  vp- 
wards  to  the  falls  on  the  south  side  of  the  river  shall  do 
the  like  from  the  Vpper  Chipoaks  to  the  vtmost  extent 
on  that  side.  And  that  the  Leifts.  and  deputy  Leifts. 
or  the  major  part  of  them  be  the  counsell  of  warr  of  the 
aforesaid  associating  countys  and  limitts  vnder  the  Go- 
vernour  and  Counsell;  And  that  the  warr  be  managed 
equallie  and  proportionably,  respect  being  had  to  the 
frontiers,  And  that  the  same  counsell  of  warr  shall  have 
power  to  leavie  such  and  soe  manie  men,  arms,  ammu- 
nition and  other  necessaries  as  emergencie  of  occasions 
shall  require,  And  in  case  of  any  of  the  said  Leifts.  or 
deputy  Leifts.  shall  abuse  their  trust,  And  just  com- 
plaintmade  thereof,  that  they  shall  be  subject  to  punish- 
ment by  the  Governour  and  Council  or  general  As- 
sembly, And  that  the  election  of  the  comander3  in 
cheife  be  from  time  to  time  referred  to  the  Governour 
and  Council,  And  be  it  further  enacted  by  the  autho- 
rity aforesaid  that  for  the  manageing  the  warr  on  the 
north  side  of  the  river,  That  evrie  15  tithable  persons 
shall  sett  forth,  compleatly  furnish  and  maintain,  one 
soldier,  vntil  such  time  as  the  Governour  and  Council 
shall  find  cause  to  increase  or  diminish  the  number; 
And  because  there  shall  be  no  scruple  or  evasion  who 
are  and  who  are  not  tithable,  It  is  resolved  by  this 
Grand  Assembly,  That  all  negro  men  and  women,  and 
all  other  men  from  the  age  of  1G  to  GO^hall  be  adjudg- 
ed tithable  :  And  in  case  any  person  or  persons  within 
their  familys,  that  such  delinquents  shall  forfeit  double 
pay  for  everie  tithable  person  soe  concealed;  And 
where  ffifteen  are  joyned  to  set  forth  one  and  cannot 
agree  amongst  themselves,  That  in  such  case  the  coun- 
cil of  warr  shall  press  whom  they  shall  think  fitt,  And 
whereas  some  difference  may  arise  concerning  the  pay 
of  the  soldier  so  sett  out,  It  shall  be  lawfull  for  the  14 
to  compound  and  agree  with  him  as  they  and  he  shall 
think  fitt,  And  in  case  of  disagreement  that  then  the 
counsell  of  warr  shall  allow  the  soldier  such  satisfacti- 


FEBRUARY,  1644-5— 19th  CHARLES  1st. 


lUl, 


on  from  the  14  as  to  them  shall  seem  convenient,  And 
the  said  counsell  of  warr  shall  have  power  to  armethe 
soldier  with  all  necessaries  out  of  the  said  fifteen  men, 
provided  that  the  soldier  be  responsible  for  his  arms 
(in  case  he  shall  negligently  loose  or  spoyle  them)  out 
of  his  sallary,  And  to  avoid  all  doubts  and  controver- 
sies that  may  arise  in  case  of  the  death  of  any  such  sol- 
dier, whether  he  be  servant  or  other,  Be  it  enacted  by 
the  authoritie  aforesaid  that  any  soldier  so  slayne  in 
the  service  his  whole  yeares  sallary  shall  be  due  if  he 
were  hired  for  so  long  time  as  he  did  serve,  and  the  re- 
mainder by  a  publique  leavie,  And  in  case  he  be  only 
sick,  maymed  or  hurt,  that  then  the  county  of  which  he 
went  to  pay  for  his  cure  to  the  chirurgion  that  shall  be 
imployed  about  him,  And  if  it  so  fall  out  that  a  dimi- 
nution of  the  armes  shall  be  expedient,  That  then  the 
least  number  maintaining  a  soldier  shall  be  first  releiv- 
ed. 


May  arm  Ibe 
soldiers, 
who  are  to 
be  rt* sponsi- 
ble if  they 
negligently 
lose  them. 

Soldier  kill- 
ed in  service 
entitled  to 
his  whole 
year's  pay. 

If  wounded 
the  expense 
of  cure  to  be 
paid  by  his 
county. 
Who  to  be 
fust  disharg- 
ed. 


Fort  James 

Pay  of  work 
men. 


ACT  IX. 

Be  it  also  enacted  that  there  be  three  fi'orts  erected,    iln.ee  U)Vl. 
one  at  Pomunkey  to  be  called  Fort  Royal ;  another  to  to  be  built, 
the  Falls  of  James  River  to  be  called  ffort  Charles,  and   p^rtci?^ 
the  third  on  the  Ridge  of  Chiquohomine,  and  to  be  call- 
ed Fort  James,  and  that  carpenters  and  other  necessa- 
rie  handicraft   men   for  and  about  the   said  worke  be 
pressed  at  the  rate  of  7  pound  of  tobacco  per  diem  for 
conveniencie  of  retreate  and  other  occasions,  The  co- 
manders  of  thefibrts  to  be  appointed  by  the  Governour 
and  Council ;  And  in  case  an  expedition  to  Pomonkey 
or  any  other  northerly  part  of  the  collony  do  require  it, 
that  the  severall  commanders  with  the  companies  shall 
joyn  by  a  comand  from  the  Governour  and  Council  to  Governor  as 
prosecute  the  said  warr,  and  leaving  a  sufficient  strength  do.unei'  ma-' 
at  each  Ifort,  and  in  case  they  shall  not  be  thought  a 
sufficient  company  so  joyned  as  aforesaid, That  the  Go- 
vernour and  Council  shall  have  power  to  raise  either 
men,  horses,   armes,  amunilion   or  provison  as  they 
shall  think  fitt  or  expedient  for  the  service,  And  be- 
cause it  is  an  vndisputable  truth,  that  the  service  of 
some  Indians  either  of  Achomack  or  Rappahannock  be 
treated  with  and  entertained  for  the  further  discovery 
of  the  enemie,  Be  it  also  further  enacted,  That  the  co- 
mander?  in  cheife  tpc^vp  for  their  vears   ^llarv  as  a   rX  ol  ° 


294 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


How  inferior 
offi'/prs  ap- 
pointed. 
Counties  on 
the  south  & 
north  side  of 
the  river  to 
bear  the  ex- 
penses of  the 
war  on  eacli 
side  respect- 
ively. 


reward  for  their  service  6000 pounds  of  tobaccoe,  Their 
Lefts  4000  pounds  of  tobaccoe,  And  either  Serjeants 
2000  pounds  of  tobaccoe  yearly  or  so  long  as  they  serve 
proportionately,  And  the  choice  of  the  inferior  officers 
shah  belong  to  the  said  comanders  with  allowance  of 
the  Governor  and  Council ;  And  be  it  explained  and 
confirmed  by  the  authoritie  aforesaid  that  the  associa- 
ting counties  on  the  south  side  of  the  river  are  wholly 
to  contribute  towards  the  maintenance  of  the  warr  on 
that  side  without  any  expectation  of  any  contribution 
from  the  north  side,  and  so  likewise  on  the  north  side 
by  themselves  including  Northampton  and  Northum- 
berland.* 


ACT  X 


Penalty  an- 
nexed to  a 
former  act 
for  shooting. 


BE  it  alsoe  enacted  and  confirmed  that  this  clause  be 
annexed  to  the  first  act  of  Assembly  held  the  first 
of  March,  1643,  concerning  shooting  of  Gunns — That 
the  penaltie  for  every  offender  and  offence  in  that  kind 
shall  be  100  pound  of  tobaccoe  halfe  to  him  that  in- 
formed the  Left,  and  the  other  halfe  to  the  vse  of  the 
courrtye. 


ACT  XL 


Poor  prison- 
ers taken  in 
execution  for 
tobacco, 
  shall  oiiVnd 
therein  according  to  the  nature  of  the  offence. 


ACT  IV. 

TO  rectifie  the  great  abuse  .d' millers,  Be  it  enacted  MiHen  not 
that  no    person  or  persons  sha':!  tor  the  grinding  any   ^^j".^!)" 
grayne  that  shall   he   brought  vnto  them  take  above  ?art  for  toll. 
the  sixth  part  thereof f  r  toll. 


ACT  V. 

WHEREAS  it  hath  pleased  bis  most  excellent  ma- 
jestie  to  give  instructions  to  the  present  Governor 
for  the  inlarcement  of  the  payment  of  powder  paid 
by  the  shipps  arriving  in  this  collony,  B  now 

•      •     ••-    *^l  i     ii     i  -^        i  •    l    •  i     ii    empannell- 

a  june  il  either  party  shall  desire  it,  which  jurors  shall  r(]  r 

be  chosen  of  the  most  able  men  of  the  county  who  shail  To  consist  of 

of  course  be  empannelled  by  the  sherrifT  for  that  pur-  tl,e  n,ost  able 

i  •/  ^  men. 

pose:  but.  if  the  defendant  before  the  hearing  of  the  Deft;  before 

cause  shall  desire  releife  in  equity,  and  to  be  heard  in  the  trial  may 

way  of  chancery,  then  the  proceedings  by  the  way  of  g^u"^ 

jury  at  common  law  shall  be  stayed  vntil  the  other  par-  the  trial  at 

ty  have  answered  the  particulars   of  his  petition  vpon  kwsuspend- 

oath  and  the   cause  heard  accordingly  :  Vpon  which  C8U(6e  for  re. 

hearing,  The  eomissioners  shall  either  proceed  to  make  liei  inequity 

a  final  end,  or  decree  in  the  said  cause,  or  else  finding  !he  s,uf ,0 

,  -       ,    .c     .  .  .  ,     ?    be  remitted 

noe  such  cause  of  releife  in  eqintie  as  was  pretended,   tothecom- 
then  to  remit  the  cause  J^ck  againe  to  be  tryed  by  ajiv   mon  law  side 
rv  as  aforesaid  :   And  the  jurors  to  be  kept  from  food   «f  the  con". 

~    i        i    -c      -ii  i  •  t  Jurors  to  be 

and  releife  till  they  have  agreed  vpon  their  verdict  ac-  kept  from 

cording  to  the  custome  practised  in  England,  Also  it  food,  fac. 

shall  be  lawful!  for  any  person  or  persons  haveing cause  ^^x„ 

of  equity  to  take  out   sumons  vnder  the  hand  of  one  of  how  com 

the  eomissioners  of  the  quorum  in  way  of  subpoena  to  rnenced. 

be  entred  in  the  Clerkes  booke,  commanding  the  ap-  Bill  or  pnti 

pearance  of  any  person  or  persons  to  answer  the  com-  tion  to  be 

plaint  of  the  pit.  who  sV all   exhibitt  his  petition,   to  exl,,l)lted- 

which  the  defendant  shall  be  bound  to  answer  vpon  Answer  on 

oath  a*  aforesaid,   And  the  court  is  hereby  authorized  oat,» 
to  appoint  such  times  and  orders  as  they  shall  think  fitt 

fTor  the  hearingof  all  the  aforesaid  chancery  causes,  Be  Record* to 

it  alsoe  enacted,  That  the  clerkes  of  the  courts  shall  btfkwx 


304 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


Depositions, 
r«w  taken. 


from  time  to  time  keep  records  of  the  proceedings  of 
all  actions  and  causes  aforesaid,  and  noe  depositions 
shall  be  taken  but  in  court,  or  before  two  of  the  comis- 
sioners  the  pit.  and  defend't  being  present  or  some  ap- 
pointed by  the  said  pit.  and  deft. 


Judgment 
may  be  con- 
fessed out  of 
court  by  ac- 
knowledg- 
ment in  writ- 
ing. 


ACT  XI. 

BE  it  also  enacted  for  the  lessening  of  expense  and 
trouble  in  courts,  Thai  if  any  person  or  persons  will 
acknowledge  vnder  his  or  their  hand  or  hands  a 
judgment  for  his  or  their  just  debt  or  debts,  and  the 
same  be  entered  by  the  clerke  of  the  county  court  be- 
fore one  of  the  comissioriers  of  the  quorum  in  a  booke 
to  be  kept  for  that  purpose,  Then  such  judgment  shall 
to  be  equally  binding  if  given  by  the  court,  and  execu- 
tion to  issue  accordingly,  And  the  clerkes  fee  for  en- 
tering such  judgments  to  be  tenn  pounds  of  tobacco  h 
for  an  authenticail  coppie  thereof  four  pounds  of  to- 
bacco. 


ACT  XII. 


Grand  juries 
to  be  empan- 
nelled  at 
midsummer 
and  March 
co'ty  courts. 


BE  it  also  enacted,  That  at  midsumer  and  March 
courts  a  jury  shall  be  empanelled  in  the  severall 
county  courts,  to  attend  the  said  courts,  to  receive  all 
presentments  and  informations,  and  to  enquire  of  the 
breach  of  all  penal  laws  and  other  crimes  and  misde- 
meanors not  touching  life  or  member,  to  present  the 
same  to  the  court,  who  are  to  determine  thereof,  or  else 
if  they  shall  see  cause  totransmitt  the  same  to  the  Go- 
vernour  and  Council. 


Appeals  to 
lie  as  former- 

iy. 

Judgment  in 
one  county, 
how  execution 
to  issue  in 
another. 


ACT  XIII. 

BE  it  alsoe  enacted,  That  appeales  shall  lie  from 
county  court*  to  quarter  courts  and  from  quarter 
courts  to  assembly  as  formerly  hath  been  vsed,  And  a 
judgment  being  entred  in  any  of  the  county  courts  and 
certified  vnder  the  clerks  hand  into  any  other  county, 
execution  shall  there  issue  as  if  judgment  had  been  gi- 
ven in  the  same  countv. 


NOVEMBER,  1645— 20th  CHARLES  1st. 


305 


ACT  XIV. 

WHEREAS  die  former  course  in  awarding  20  in 
the  hundred  for  default  of  appearance  hatli  been  found 
inconvenient,  It  is  thought  fitt  that  the  same  be  re- 
pealed, and  in  stead  thereof,  Be  it  enacted,  That  all 
sheriffs  shall  take  sufficient  bayle  of  all  persons  arrest- 
ed, with  this  condition  to  bring  forth  the  body  of  the 
party  arrested  or  perform  the  award  of  the  court,  And 
if  the  sherrirf  shall  neglect  to  take  sufficient  bayle  of 
the  party  arrested,  or  otherwise  consent  to,  or  because 
of  his  escape,  Then  the  said  sheriff  shall  bee  liable  to 
pay  the  award  of  the  court  himselfe,  But  if  the  party 
arrested  shall  not  appear  to  answer  the  suit,  bayle  being 
given,  then  judgmentshall  he  awarded  against  the  bayle, 
And  the  bayle  soe  condemned,  (if  it  be  required)  shall 
;hen  have  an  attachment  against  the  estate  of  the  party 
soe  arrested  not  appeariuge,  And  the  court  following 
judgment  therevpon  :  Allwaies  provided  that  if  the  said 
bayle  att  the  next  court  after  the  first  impleading  do 
bring  forth  the  body  or  sufficient  goods  of  the  party  soe 
arrested  to  satisfie  the  award  of  the  court,  The  bayle 
shall  be  then  acquitted,  And  the  said  comissioners 
shall  be  precisely  tied  to  keep  the  days  appointed  for 
their  meeting  by  former  act  of  Assembly,  and  for  no 
cause  to  alter  the  same,  But  it  shall  be  lawfull  for  the 
comissioners  to  hold  courts  att  other  times  if  occasion 
require,  And  it  shall  be  in  the  power  of  the  Govern- 
our  to  appoint  and  nominate  the  clerkes  of  the  county 
courts  and  their  ffees  for  enteringe  of  all  actions  above 
the  value  of  1600  lb.  of  tob'o.  or  £10  sterl.  as  alsoe 
for  all  other  things  which  before  this  act  belonged  to 
the  secretaries  office  provided  they  exceed  not  the  ffees 
formerly  allowed  by  act  of  Assembly, 


Former  law 
awarding  da 
mages  for 

Don  appear- 
ance of  deft, 
repealed. 
SherifVto 
take  bail  on 
arrests  or  be 
liable  to  the 
judgment  of 
the  court. 
If  the  deft, 
fail  to  ap- 
pear, judg- 
ment to  be 
entered 
against  the 
bail. 

Bail  may 
have  an  at 
tachment 
against  the 
principal ;  or 
be  discharg- 
ed by  surren- 
dering him 
at  the  next 
court  or  pro- 
ducing suffi- 
cient of  his 
goods. 
Courts  to  be 
punctually 
held  on  the 
days  appoint 
ed. 
Extra  courts 

Clerks  of 
co'ty  courts, 
how  appoint 
ed. 
Their  fees 


ACT  XV. 


WHEREAS   the  anncient  and  vsual  taxing  of  all  General  poll 
people  of  this  collony  by  the  pole,  equally,   hath  been  taxes  abo- 
found    inconvenient  and  is   become  insupportable  for     S1 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


Tax  on  pro- 
perty Si  titli- 
ables. 


When  h  how 
lists  of  taxa- 
ble property 
and  lands  to 
be  taken. 


raised  by  equall  proportions  out  of  the  visible  estates 
in  the  collony,  The  conformity  of  the  proportions  to 
be  as  followeth,  (vizt.) 


One  hundred  acres  of  land  at 
One  cow,  3  years  old  at 
Horses,  mares  and  geldings  at 
A  breeding  sheep  att 
A  breeding  goate  at 
A  tithable  person  at 


04  lb.  tobacco, 

04 

32  a  peece. 

04 

02 

20 


And  for  the  better  effectinge  thereof,  Be  it  enacted* 
That  b}'  the  25th  of  June  next,  a  list  be  taken  by  some 
to  be  appointed  for  that  purpose  by  the  county  courts 
in  each  county  of  all  tithable  persons,  of  all  cowes  above 
3  yeare  old,  of  all  horses,  mares,  and  geldings  of  3years 
old  and  vpwards  and  of  all  breedinge  sheepe  and  goats 
in  like  manner,  and  that  such  lists  be  taken  yearly  at 
the  same  time  (vizt.)  the  25th  of  June  and  sent  vnto 
the  secretaries-office,  Likewise  that  the  treasurer  shall 
yearly  give  in  an  account  to  the  said  office  of  all  the 
particular  parcells  of  land  in  each  county  at  the  same 
time  of  the  25th  of  June,  soe  that  by  this  means  the 
quanlitye  of  land,  tithable  persons,  horses,  marcs,  geld- 
ings, cowes,  sheepe  and  goats  may  be  knowne  in  each 
county  and  consequently  the  total!  in  the  county,  which 
done,  and  the  publique  taxe  knowne  to  the  Assembly, 
the  abovesaid  proportions  shall  be  augmented  or  dimi- 
nished as  occasion  shall  require. 


Writs  for- 
merly issued 
in  the  name 
of  the  govern- 
or to  issue 
under (he 
seal  of  office. 


ACT  XVI. 

WHEREAS  the  Governor's  vrgent  occasions  will 
not  permit  him  to  reside  continually  at  James  Citty 
and  that  in  his  absence  no  writ  can  issue  forth,  It  is 
thought  fitt  and  accordinglie  enacted,  That  all  writs 
shall  issue  out  of  the  office  vnder  the  seale  as  at  this 
present  they  do,  and  since  the  Governor's  goeing  the 
last  march  have  done, 


Quit  rents  to 
be  applied 
first  to  the 


ACT  XVII. 

ACCORDING  to  his  ma'ties.  gracious  bounty  to 
this  collony,  expressed  in  his  late  royal  letters,  Be 
it   enacted  by  the   Governor,  Council  and  Burgesses. 


NOVEMBER,  1645— 20th  CHARLES  1st, 


307 


of  this  present  Grand  Assembly  that  all  the  quitt  rents  payment  of 
for  land  due  to  his  majesty  in  this  collony  be  disposed   thf treasuf- 
as  followeth  (vizt.)  ffirst  allowing- to  the  treasurer  for  and  then  to 
the  time  being   his   salary  of  £.  500  per.  ann.  as  the  be  disposed 
revenues  shall  amount  thereto,  and  then'vvhat shall  arise  "  b/J}\c  gen 
by  surplussage  the  aceompt  thereof  to  be  presented  to 
the  Governor  and  Council  and   then  to  be  disposed  of 
by  the  Assembly  as  they  shall  think  fitt, 


ACT  XVIII. 

WHEREAS  the  earnest  prosecution  of  the  present  The  ten  men 
warrs    hath    subjected    this    collony  to  an    excessive  ofeachcoun- 
charge   wherein    all    persons    whatsoever   inhabiting  £'e  tempted 
within    this  colony   ought   equally   to  be   ingaged  in  during  the 
respect  the  preservation  of  all  depends  therevpon,  and   present  war. 
that  the  warr  is  conceived  to  be  a  defensive  warr  where- 
in those  of  the  Council  are  by  his  ms'ties  instructions 
equally  ingaged  with  the  rest  of  the  collony  :  Be  it  there- 
fore enacted,  That  those  of  the  Council  aforesaid  shall 
noe  longer  exempt  their  tenne  men  a  peece  from  the 
charge  of  the  said  warr  but  shall  equally  contribute  with 
the  rest  of  the  inhabitants,  in  all  charge  expended  here- 
in both  for  this  present  yeare  and  all  the  time  that  the 
said  warr  shall  continue,  excepting  onely  the  fourteens 
alreadie  agreed  upon  in  the  countys,  which  they  are 
cleered  from,  in  respect  of  what  is  allreadie  done  there- 
in cannot  be  altered  orintermedled  with  without  much 
trouble.  • 


ACT  XIX. 

WHEREAS  it  is  to  be  desired  that  all  manufactors 
should  be  sett  on  work  and  encouraged  in  this  col- 
lony, Be  it  enacted  hereby,  That  all  exportation  of 
hides  Si  leather  be  forbidden,  vpon  penaltie  of  the  for- 
feiture of  double  the  value  of  any  hides  and  leather  soe 
exported  out  of  the  collony,  and  the  stay  of  any  such 
vessel  or  vessels  in  which  any  of  them  shall  be  found, 
The  halfe  of  which  forfeiture  shall  be  to  die  king  :  the 
other  halfe  to  the  informer. 


Exportation 
of  hides  and 
leather  pro- 
hibited. 


309 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA 


Coins  intro- 
duced. 


Spanish  pie- 
ces of  eight 
rated  at  6s. 
each,  and 
other  Spa- 
nish coin* 
proportion- 
ably. 

Copper  coins. 


Tobacco  no 
longer  a  cir- 
culating me- 
dium. 
Penalty. 


Copper,  how 
to  be  procur- 
ed. 


lobs  coined 
in  2d,  3d,  6d 
&.  9d  pieces. 
If  called  in 
and  become 
not  current 
the  republic 
to  make  it 
p,ood. 

Connterfeits, 
how  guarded 
against. 


ACT   XX. 

THE  Governor,  Council  and  Burgesses  of  this 
present  Grand  Assembly  having  maturely  weighed  &. 
considered  how  advantageous  a  quoine  current  would 
be  to  this  collony,  and  the  great  wants  and  miseries 
which  do  dally  happen  vnto  it  by  the  sole  dependency 
vpon  tob'o.  have  at  length  resolved  and  enacted,  and 
be  it  by  the  aathoritie  aforesaid  enacted  as  the  onely 
way  to  procure  the  said  quoine  and  prevent  the  further 
miseries,  That  all  peeces  of  eight  in  Spanish  money  be 
valued  and  taken  in  payment,  att  the  rate  of  sixe  shil- 
lings and  all  other  Spanish  silver  quoines  proportiona- 
lly which  shall  be  brought  into  the  collony :  And  where- 
as it  is  conceived  that  the  said  quoine  will  not  continue 
with  vs  vnless  we  have  a  leger  quoine,  Therefore  seri- 
ous consideration  had  of  the  many  wayes  tending  to  that 
effect,  Itwasat  length  generally  allowed,  Thata  quoine 
of  copper  would  be  the  most  beneficial  to,  and  with  most 
ease  procured  by  the  collony,  And  that  after  proclama- 
tion made  by  the  Governour  and  Council  that  all  per- 
son or  persons  within  this  collony  whether  merchants 
or  others  do  desist  or  leave  offtradeing  for  tob'o.  vpon 
the  penaltie  and  forfeiture  of  the  thing  so  bought  or 
sold,  The  one  moyetie  whereof  shall  be  and  come  to 
the  informer,  and  the  other  to  the  benefit  of  the  state. 

The  quoine  to  be  erected  after  this  manner. 

J  0000  lb.  of  copper  to  be  bought  by  the  publique  at  the 
rate  of  18d.  per  lb.  which  amounts  to  £7  50  sterl.  which 
to  be  paid  in  tob'o.  at  the  rate  of  Id.  l-2d.  per  lb. 
120000  of  tob'o.  which  being  collected  per  pole  accoun- 
ting 5000  persons  in  this  collony  it  comes  to  24  lb  of 
tob'o.  per  pole  every  pound  of  copper  to  make  20s.  and 
to  allow  for  the  mintage  12d.  per  pound  soe  there  will 
remaine  £9500  sterl.  The  mintage  allowed  and  de- 
ducted. The  stocke  to  be  equallie  divided  amongst 
the  adventurers  to  be  quoined  in  two  pences.  three  pen- 
ces,  sixe  pences  and  nine  pences,  And  if  it  shaH  happen 
at  anytime  hereafter  that  the  aforesaid  quoine  be  called 
in  and  become  not  currant,  Yet  the  republique  shall 
make  good  the  quantity  of  so  much  (vizt.)  £,  10000 
to  he  levied  per  poll,  And  that  it  may  be  provided  that 
this  quoine  may  not  be  counterfeited  and  brought  in 
Beside  the  inflicting  of  capitall  punishment  vpon  these 


NOVEMBER,  1645— 20th  CHARLES  1st.  309 

who   shall  be    found  delinquents  therein,  That  vppon   Devices, 
every  peece  of  coyne  there  be  two  rings.  The  one  for 
the    motto,  The   other  to   reeeave    a  new  impression 
which  shall  be  stampted  yearly  with  some  new  ffigure, 
by  one  appointed  for  that  purpose  in  each  county,  And 
that   the  hon'ble.  Sir  William  Berkeley,  Kut.  Govrir. 
shall  have  the  disposall  and   placing  of  such  and  soe 
manie  officers  as  shall  be  necessarilye  required  for  per- 
ibrming    and  finishing   the   aforesaid    service,  Onely   M'nt  master 
Capt.  John  Upton  is  hereby  confirmed    Mint  Master  »enera 
Generall:   Wee  reposing imuch  confidence  in  his  care, 
ability  and   trust  for  the  performance  of  the  said  of- 
fice. 

The  Assembly  is  prorogued  vntill  the  ffirst  of  March  Prorogation 
next,  and  then  a  full  meeting  to  be  had  concerning  of  nssembbr- 
the  same. 


[MARCH,  1645-6— SECOND  SESSION.faJ} 


war- 


ACT   I. 

WHEREAS  it  was  enacted  at  a  Grand  Assembly  church 
bearing  date  the  second  of  March  1642,  concerninge  dens  to  pre 
the  church  governmeot,   That  the  church-wardens  of  s^' certal" 

c  oitcnccs  not 

every  parish  respectively  should  deliver  in  a  true  pre-  only  from 
sentment  in  writeing  of  such  misdemeanors  as  to  their  their  ovvn 
knowledge    have  been   comitted  the  yeare  before,  in   b^from'm- 
that  time  whilst  they  were   church-wardens,  Namely  formation  of 
swearing,   prophaning  God's  name  and  his  holy  Sab-  °thers. 
baths,  abuseing  his  holy  word  and  comandments,  con- 
temning his  holy  sacraments  or  any  thing  belonging  to 
his  service  or  worship,  It  is  now  further  enacted  by  this 
present  Grand  Assembly,  That  the  said  church  wardens 

[a]  The  words  included  thus  [  ]  have  been  introduced  by  the 
Editor  ;  because  this  is  evidently  a  second  session  of  the  Grand  As- 
sembly, as  appears  not  only  from  the  prorogation  above  mentioned, 
but  from  the  circumstance  that  several  of  the  acts  of  this  session 
^[a 
the  south  side  of  James  River,  And  that  the  same  sa-  Fayof  offi- 
iary  be  allowed  to  the  officers  respectively  of  the  flbrt  ^ir(sofll,e 
Henry  that  the  officers  of  the  fortes  on  the  north  side 
of  the  river  had  and  enjoyed  the  last  year  by  vertueof 
the  3d  act  of  the  17th  of  fleb:  1644,  with  the  like  pri- 
viledge  to  the  Capt.  to    elect  his  inferior  officers,  And    Surgeon  to 
that  the  Leu'ts.  and  dept.  Leu'ts.  do  take  care  to  pro-  bc  employed. 
'ide  a  sufficient  chirurgeon  for  the  said  forte. 


;u 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


Quit  vents 
receivable  in 
tobacco  at 
3d.  per  lb. 


ACT  XIV. 

_  BE  it  enacted  by  this  present  Grand  Assembly,  That 
his  ma-ties  treasurer  doe  receave  the  quitt  rents  in 
tob'o.  at  the  rate  of  3d.  per  pound.  It  being  conceive 
od  the  value  of  the  comoditie  at  present. 


Former  act 
compelling 

physicians  k. 
surgeons  to 
declare  on 
oath  the  value 
of  their  drugs 
and  medicines, 
revived. 


courts  may 

allow  what  is 
rcasonal  ' 


Penalty  on 
physicians  &, 
syrsrcoris 


ACT  XV. 

WHEREAS  by  the  9th  act  of  Assembly  held  the 
21st   of  October,    1639,  consideration  being  had  and 
taken  of  the   imoderate  and  excessive  rates  and  prices 
exacted  by  practitioners    in   physick   and  chyrurgery 
and  the  complaints  made  to  the  then  Assembly  of  the 
bad  consequence  thereof,  It  so  happening  through  the 
said  intollerable  exactions  that  the  hearts  of  divers  mas- 
ters were  hardened  rather  to  suffer  their  servants  to  pe- 
rish for  want  of  fitt  meanes   and    applications  then  by 
seeking   releife  to  fall  into  the  hands  of  griping  and 
avaricious  men,  It  be  apprehended  by  such  masters  who 
were  more  swayed  by  politick  respects  then  Xpian*  du- 
ty or  charity,  That  it  was  the  moregainfull  and  saving 
way  to  stand    to    the   hazard  of  their  servants  then  to 
entertain  the  certain  charge  of  a  physitian  or  chirurge- 
on  whose  demands  for  the  most  parte  exceed  the  pur- 
chase of  the  patient,  It  was  therefore  enacted  for  the 
better  redress  of  the  like  abuses  thereafter  vntil  some 
litter  course  should  be  advised  on,  for  the  regulating 
phisJtians  and  chirurgeons  within  the  collony,  That  it 
should  be  lawfull  and  free  for  any  person  or  persons  in 
such   cases  where  they  should  conceive   the  accoH.  of 
the  phisitian  or  chirurgeon  to  be  vnreasonable  either 
for  his  pains  or  for  his  druggs  or  medicines,  to  arrest 
the   said   phisitian  or  chirurgeon  either  to  the  quarter 
court  or  county  court  where   they  inhabitt,  where  the 
said  phisitian  should  declare  vpon  oath  the  true  value 
worth  and  quantity  of  his  druggs  and  medicines  admi- 
nistred  to  or  for  the  vse  of  the  plt.f  wherevpon  the  court 
where  the  matter  was  tryed  was  to  adjudge  and  al- 
low to  the  said  phisitian  or  chirurgeon  such  satisfacti- 
on and  reward  as  they  in  their  discretions  should  think 
fitt,  And  it  was  further  ordered  that  when  it  should  be 
sufficiently  proved  in  any  of  the  said  courts  that  a  phy- 
sitian or  chirurgeon  had  neglected  his  patient,  or  that 


*  Chr 


t  Patient. 


MARCH,  1645-6— 21st  CHARLES  1st. 


317 


he  had  refused,  being  thereunto  required,  his  helpeand  neglecting 
assistance  to  any  person  or  persons  in  sicknes  or  extre-  their  P*\tient5 
mity,   That   the   said    phisitian  or  ehirurgeon  should  Stance5 
be  censured  by  the  said  court  for  such  his  neglect  or 
refuseall,  which  said  act  and  every  clause  therein  men- 
tioned and  repeated,  this  present   Grand  Assembly  to  Jurisdiction 
all  intents  and  purposes  doth  revive,  rattifie,  allow  and  g'ven  county 
confirme  with  this  only  exception  that  the  pits,  or  pa-  courts 
tients  shall  have  their  remedie  at  the  county  courts  re- 
spective1 v,  vnless  in  case  of  appeale. 


ACT    XVI. 

WHEREAS  by  a  Grand  Assembly  held  the  17th 
of  Feb.  1644,  It  was  then  enacted  by  the  consent 
of  Mr.  Thos.  Hampton,  rector  of  Ja  :  Citty  parish, 
That  the  inhabitants  of  the  east  side  of  Archers 
hope  creeke  to  the  head  thereof,  and  downe  to  Ware- 
hams  ponds,  should  be  a  distinct  parish  of  themselves, 
Bee  it  now  further  enacted  by  the  authoritye  of  this 
present  Grand  Assembly,  That  the  said  parish  be  no- 
minated and  called  by  the  name  of  Harrop  parish.     , 


Harrop  pa 
rish  esta- 
blished. 


ACT  XVII. 

BE  it  enacted  by  this  present  Grand  Assembly  that 
the  25th*  act  of  the  Grand  Assembly  held  the  se- 
cond of  March,  1642.  injoyning  sufficient  and  legall  de- 
mands to  be  made  before  any  suits  should  be  commen- 
ced, be  from  henceforth  repealed  and  made  void,  And 
in  stead  thereof  be  it  enacted  by  the  authoritye  afore- 
said that  the  creditor's  oath  shall  be  a  sufficient  proofe 
whether  or  no  the  debt  in  question  were  first  demand- 
ed before  the  suit  commenced. 


Former  act 
requiring 
proof  of  a  de- 
mand before 
suit  brought 
repealed  and 
the  credi- 
tor's oath 
sufficient. 


ACT  XVI II. 

_.  „,  .,         ,  —.  Airange- 

WHEREAS  the  Governor,  Council  and  Burgesses  ments  for  an 
of   this   present    Grand    Assembly    have     maturely  expedition 
weighed  and  considered  the  great  and  vast  expence  of  jjjjjj}* 


At '  \'T,iVSn  ibis  colled 


LAWS  OF  V1RGIMA. 


^Number  of 

From  what 
counties. 


Ammuni- 
tion. &c 


.'revisions. 


the  collony,  in  prosecuting  the  warr  against  our  comon 
enemies  the  Indians,  and  the  almost  impossibility  of  a 
further  revenge  vpon  them,  they  being  dispersed  and 
driven  from  their  townes  and  habitations,  lurking  vp  h 
downe  the  woods  in  small  numbers.  And  that  a  peace 
(if  honourably  obtained)  would  conduce  to  the  better 
being  and  comoditie  of  the  country,  have  enacted,  and 
be  it  therefore  enacted  by  the  authority  aforesaid,  That 
three-score  men  be  forthwith  raised  on  the  north  side 
of  James  River,  well  provided  with  fixed  guns,  shott 
baggs  and  swords,  That  is'to  say,  from  Henrico  2  men, 
Charles  Citty  county  4,  James  Citty  countye  13,  Yorke 
county  16,  Warwick  county  eight,  Eliz.  Citty  county 
8,  and  Northampton  county  9 — All  which  said  men 
shall  march  vnder  and  be  obedient  to  the  command  of 
Leift.  Fra  :  Poythers  in  the  manageing  of  any  occasi- 
onall  warr,  And  that  vpon  all  emergent  occasions  in 
the  treaty  for  the  accomodation  of  a  peace  the  said 
Leift.  ffrancis  Poythers  shall  follow  the  advice  of  Capt. 
Henry  flieet,  And  that  the  said  Capt  Henry  Fleet 
shall  according  to  his  vndertakeing  and  propositions 
made  to  the  Grand  Assembly  provide  and  make  rea- 
die  his  barque,  boat  and  shallop,  victualls  and  men  for 
the  manageing  of  the  said  vessellsfor  the  space  of  sixe 
weeks,  And  three  hundred  pound  of  powder  and  1200 
lb.  of  shott  or  bulletts  for  the  said  sixty  men  to  be  em- 
ployed in'the  service,  att  his  owne  proper  costs  and 
charges,  As  alsoe  all  such  nailes,  axes,  hoes,  spades,  & 
other  necessaries  for  the  service  as  occasion  shall  re- 
quire, the  charge  of  which  shall  be  borne  and  defrayed 
by  the  publique  leavye,  And  that  the  said  60  soldiers 
be  raised  by  the  Leift.  and  deputy  Leifts.  of  the  said 
severail  countyes  respectively  in  the  several!  precincts 
who  are  to  repaire  to  their  rendevouze  at  Kickotan  on 
the  20th  of  Aprill  next  well  appointed  as  aforesaid, 
And  further  be  it  enacted,  That  Mr.  Cornelius  Lloyd 
and  Mr.  Antho  :  Elliot  shall  forthwith  putt  in  securi- 
ty (according  to  the  present  vndertakeing)  to  provide 
and  make  readie  att  the  tyme  aforesaid  2520  lb.  of 
beefe  and  porke  sufficiently  salted  and  packt  in  caske, 
and  25201b.  of  bread  or  sifted  meale  and  40  bushellf. 
of  peas  in  caske  or  the  valewin  bread  and  meale,  In  con- 
sideration whereof  they  shall  receive  15000  lb.  of  to- 
bacco to  be  raised  by  the  next  publique  leavie,  out  of 
"rh  county  or  countvs  afe  thev  cii*U  desire.  And  *hn: 


MARCH,  1645-6— ^ist  CHARLES  is..  US 

Ca  jit.  Henry  Fleet  in  satisfaction  of  his  charge  and  dis- 
bursement.shall  receive  the  sumnieof  15000  lb.  of  tob'o. 
to  be  likewise  raysed  at  the  next  Lea  vie,  Provided  ali- 
wayes  that  in  case  he  do  not  effect  the  aforesaid  in- 
tended peace  with  Oppechankeno  or  his  Indians  our 
enemies,  that  then  he  shall  beare  all  such  charges  and 
disbursements  without  any  consideration  or  satisfaction 
from  the  publique,  And  if  it  shali  soe  happen  that  a 
peace  may  not  or  cannot  be  concluded,  that  then  they 
the  said  Fleet  and  Poythcrs  shall  erect  and  biuld  a 
forte  in  any  convenient  place  in  Rappahannock  River, 
or  before  if  they  shall  soe  think  fitt,  And  follow  such 
further  instructions  as  shall  be  given  them,  by  this 
Grand  Assembly  or  the  Governour  and  council. 


ACT  XIX, 

BE  it  enacted  by  the  Governour,   Council  and  Bur-  No  merchant 

gesses  of  this  present  Grand  Assembly   that  no  mer-  *o°  "J™1  w,ne 

chant  whatsoever  shall  retayle  wine  or  strong  waters  waters  with- 

within  the  corporation  of  James  Citlye  or  the  Island,  inthecorpo- 

And  that  no  ordnary  keeper  that  shall  be  licensed  for  rc*,'onof" 

the  retayling  of  wines  or  other  strong  liquors  do  ex-  Tavern  keep- 

ceed  the  rates  and  prices   allreadie    sett  therevpon,  erstobego- 

or  sophisticate  the  same  vpon  penalty  of  such  fyne  to  raTesfaiready 

be  imposed  vpon  them  by  the  commissioners  of  ihe  established.' 
county  courts  respectively  as  they  shall  thinke  fitt. 


ACT  XX, 

BE,  it  enacted  by  the   authoritie  aforesaid,  That  the  Former  a?i 
•3th  act  of  the  Grand  Assembly  held  the  first  of  March,  repea,ed 
1643,  requireing  all  lead  to  be  melted  and  imployed 
for  the  making  of  shott  be  from  henceforth  repealed 
and  made  void. 


ACT  XXL 

BE  it  enacted  by  this  present  Grand  Aseembly  and  When  levies 

the  authority  of  the  same,  That  all  levies  that  shall  EjSJ?' 

,>  of  November  following,  And  in  case  of  non- 


320 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


No  levies  to 
be  raised  but 
by  a  grand 

■assemblv. 


payment  that  the  sherriffs  be  enabled  to  make  seizure 
of  the  tob'o.  of  the  delinquents  which  in  all  probability 
will  not  be  disposed  of  before  that  time  whereby  the 
publique  credit  may  be  better  preserved  and  the  cre- 
ditors fully  satisfied  in  kind  :  And  further  it  is  enacted 
and  confirmed  that  no  leavies  be  raised  within  the  col- 
!ony  but  by  a  Generall  Grand  Assembly. 


ACT  XXII. 


I  apt'aihs  of 

iorts  press- 
ing tools  &c. 
to  return 
them  to  the 
owners  or  be 
liable. 


BE  it  enacted  by  this  Grand  Assembly,  That  if  any 
of  the  Capts.  of  the  severall  forts  respectively,  shall 
at  any  time  presse  any  necessary  tooles  from  the  in- 
habitants for  the  publique  service  and  not  returne  the 
same  againe,  that  then  they  the  said  Capts.  or  any  of 
them  shall  for  such  default  be  liable  to  make  the  own- 
ers satisfaction  for  the  tooles  soe  pressed,  vpon  com- 
plaint made  to  any  county  court,  and  that  they  shall 
seek  their  releife  from  the  publique. 


Salary  oi 
Capt.  Morri- 
son at  Point 
Comfort. 


ACT  XXIII. 

WHEREAS  his  matie  by  vertue  of  his  hignesse 
writ  vnder  his  signet  and  signe  manuall  dated  the  4th 
of  October,  1644,  hath  comanded  that  some  course  be 
taken,  for  the  allowance  and  confirmation  of  a  sala- 
ry to  Capt.  Robert  Morrison  Leift.  of  the  fort  att  Poynt 
Comfort,  to  be  paid  out  of  his  ma'ties  trcasurie,  It  is 
therefore  thought  fit  and  accordingly  enacted  by  the 
Governour,  Council  and  Burgesses  of  this  present 
Grand  Assembly,  That  the  quilt  rents  and  rents  by 
leases  now  vnreceived  for  Northampton  county  from 
time  to  time  be  paid  vnto  the  said  Capt  Morrison  or 
his  assignes  during  his  continuance  in  the  said  office, 
The  rents  of  which  said  county  the  said  Capt.  Morri- 
son hath  accepted  as  a  sufficient  recompence  for  his  en- 
tertainment and  salary,  And  all  acco'ts.  and  orders 
both  for  collection  and  distresse  to  extend  as  well  to 
the  said  Morrison  or  his  agents  as  well  as  to  the  trea- 
surer, any  thing  in  the  1 7th  act  of  this  first  sessions  oer<>ceiT- 
The  said  Necotowance  and  his  people  the  Indians  doe  Henry  for  the 
repair  to  fforte  Hcnery  alias  Apparnattucke  flbrte,  or  south  side, 
to  the  house  of  Capt.  John  ffloud,  and  to  no  other  place 
or  places  of  the  south  side  of  the  river,  att  which  places 
the  aforesayd  badges  of  striped  stuffe  are  to  be  and  re- 
maine. 

Art.  9.  And  it  is  further   thought  fit  and  enacted,   English  pri- 
That  Necotowance  doe  with  all  convenience  bring  in  ^"'and 
the  English  prisoners,  And  all  such  negroes  and  guns  guns  to  be 
which  arc  yet  remaining  either  in  the  possession  of  delivered  up. 


32a 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


Provision  for 
delivering  up 
Indian  ser- 
vants run- 
ning' away. 


Indian  chil- 
dren under 
12  years  of 
age  may  live 
with  the 
English. 

Commanders 
of  forts  to 
provide  the 
striped  coats. 


himselle  or  any  Indians,  and  that  here  deliver  vpon  de- 
mand such  Indian  servants  as  have  been  taken  prison- 
ers and  shall  hereafter  '-un  away,  In  case  such  Indian 
or  Indians  shall  be  found  within  the  limitts  of  his  do- 
minions ;  provided  that  such  Indian  or  Indians  be  vn- 
der  the  age  of  twelve  years  ai  theire  running  away. 

Ar(.  10.  And  it  is  further  enacted  d/  consented,  That 
such  Indian  children  as  shall  or  will  freely  and  volun- 
tarily come  in  and  live  with  the  English,  may  remain 
without  breach  of  the  articles  of  peace  provided  they 
be  not  above  twelve  yeares  old. 

Art.  1 1.  And  it  is  further  thought  fit  and  enacted 
That  the  several  commanders  of  the  fibrts  and  places 
as  aforesaid  vnto  which  the  said  Indians  as  aforesaid 
are  admitted  to  repaire,  In  case  of  trade  or  Message 
doe  forthwith  provide  the  said  coats  in  manner  striped 
as  aforesaid. 


Propriety 
of  forts, 
and  land  ad- 
joining grant- 
ed to  indivi- 
duals on  con- 
dition of 
their  keep- 
ing them 
supplied 
with  men, 
&c. 

Grant  of  fort 
Henry  to 
Capt.  Wood. 


Conditions. 


Compensation 
to  a  for- 


ACT  II. 

AND  whereas  the  maintayneing  of  the  fibrts,  at 
least  the  greater  number  of  them  are  thought  to  be 
of  great  consequence,  In  poynt  of  honour  and  secu- 
rity of  the  collony,  and  yet  of  great  burthen  to  the  in- 
habitants to  be  mainteyned  by  the  publique  charge, 
Be  it  therefore  enacted,  That  the  said  fortes  with  the 
propriety  of  a  competent  quantity  of  land  bee  granted 
to  particular  undertakers,  to  be  maintayned  by  the  se- 
verall  vndertakers,  with  a  sufficient  strength  of  people, 
with  such  priviledges  for  theire  encouragement  herein 
as  are  hereafter  mentioned,  Be  it  therefore  enacted, 
That  Capt.  Abraham  Wood  whose  service  hath  been 
employed  att  fibrte  Henery,  be  the  vndertaker  for  the 
said  fibrte,  vnto  whome  is  granted  sixe  hundred  acres 
of  land  for  him  and  his  heiresfor  ever  ;  with  all  houses 
and  edifices  belonging  to  the  said  fforte,  with  ail  boats 
and  amunition  att  present  belonging  to  the  said  fforte, 
Provided  that  he  the  said  Capt.  Wood  do  maintayne 
and  keepe  ten  men  constantly  vpon  the  said  place  for 
the  terme  of  three  yeares,  duringe  which  time  he  the 
said  Capt.  Wood  is  exempted  from  all  publique  taxes 
for  himselfe  and  the  said  tenn  persons:  And  whereas 
Mr.  Thomas  Pitt  hatha  former  grant  for  the  said  land 


OCTOBER,  1646— 21st  CHARLES  1st.  327 

whereon  the  forte  is  built,  As  alsoe  part  of  the  said  merproprie- 
land  hereby  granted,  it  is  thought  fitt  and  enacted,  lor- 
That  the  said  Thomas  Pitt  shall  receive  a   reasonable 
satisfaction  of  the  countrey  for  the  same. 

And  it  is  further  enacted  and  granted,   That  Left.  Grant  of  Fort 
Thomas   Rolfe    shall    have   and   enjoy    for    himselfe  J&'stolieut. 
and  his  heires  for  ever  flbrt  James  alias  Chickahominy      ,os'    °  e 
fort  with  fovvre  hundred  acres  of  land  adjoyning  to  the 
same,  with  all  houses  and  edifices  belonging  to  the  said 
forte  and  all  boats  and  amunition  at  present  belonging 
to  the    scid    flbrt ;  Provided    that  he   the    said  Leift.   Conditions 
Rolfe  doe  keepe  and  maintaine  sixe  men  vpon  the  place 
duringe  the  terme  and  time  of  three  yeares,  for  which 
tyme  he  the  said  Leift.  Rolfe  for  himselfe  and  the  said 
sixe  men  are  exempted  from  publique  taxes. 

And  it  is  further  enacted.  That  Capt.  Roger  Mar-  Grant  of  Fort 
shall  have   and   enjoy    for   himselfe   and    his   heires  ^">nl'° 
for  ever  the  flbrt  Royall  alias  Ricahack  flbrt  with  sixe  .\h,frshaneC 
hundred  acres  of  land  adjoyning  to  the  same,  with  all 
houses  and  edifices  belonging  to  the  said  forte  and  all 
boats  and  amunition  belonging  to  the  said  ffort ;  pro-  Conditions. 
vided  that  he  said  Capt,  Marshall  shall  keepe  and  main- 
tayne  ten  men  vpon    the  place  during  the  terme  and 
time  of  three  yeares,  during  which  time  he  the  said 
Capt.  Marshall  for  himselfe  and  the  said  ten  men  are 
exempted  from  publique  taxes. 

And  whereas  there  is  no  plantablc  land  adjoyning   Uponwhar 
to  ffort    Charles,     And    therefore  no  encouragement  chaTieVmay 
for  any  vndertaker  to  maintaine  the  same,  It  is  there-  be  held, 
fore  thought  fitt  and  inacted,  That  if  any  person  or  there  beinS 

J  °       ,  .        ^i        •    i         /•  r~s 
cording  to  sumons,  Be  it  therefore  inacted,  That  noe 


334 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


Penalty  on 
freemen  fail- 
ing to  attend 
elections. 


How  recover- 
able. 


election  shall  be  made  of  any  Burgesse  or  Burgesses 
but  by  plurality  of  voices,  and  that  no  hand  writing  shall 
be  admitted  :  Be  it  alsoe  further  inacted,  That  what 
freemen  soever,  haveing  lawful  sumons  of  the  time  and 
place  for  election  of  Burgesses,  that  shall  not  make  re- 
paire  accordingly,  Such  person  or  persons  vnles  there 
be  lawfull  cause  for  the  absenting  himselfe  shall  for- 
feit 100  lb.  of  tob'o.  for  his  non  appearance,  flreemen 
being  covennt.  servants  being  exempted  from  the  said 
fine,  to  be  levyed  by  distresse  in  case  of  refusall,  And 
is  to  be  disposed  of  towards  the  defraying  of  the  Bur- 
gesses charges  in  the  county. 


ACT  XXI. 

Former  act  BE  it  also  inacted,  That  the  3d  act,  1645,  concern- 

repealed.  jng  tne  charges  and  disbursments  for  hurt  men,  horses. 

&tc.  be  repealed  and  made  void. 


ACT  XXII. 

Public  levies,  WHEREAS  it  was  inacted  in  a'o.  1645,  in  the  20th 
when  payable.  act  0f  t|ie  saj(j  yeer,  That  the  payment  of  levys  should 
be  satisfied  by  the  last  of  November,  It  is  now  thought 
jitt  and  inacted,  that  the  said  clause  be  repealed  ; 
And  in  stead  and  place  thereof  that  all  publique  lea- 
vies  be  satisfied  de  futuro  at  or  before  the  20th  day  of 
November. 


ACT  XXIII. 

BE  it  also  inacted  and  confirmed  by  this  present 
Grand  Assembly  that  no  appeale  be  allowed  >f,  either 
to  quarter  courts  or  Assemblys,  vnlesse  the  appellant 
do  desire  the  same,  before  judgment  passed,  or  imedi- 
ately  at  the  same  sitting  of  the  court,  and  that  in  case 
of  appeale  no  person  or  persons  whatsoever  shall  be 
whom  payable.  concjemneci  to  pay  double  or  treble  damages  who  do 
desire  by  petition  or  otherwise  to  be  tryed  by  the 
county  courts  or  quarter  courts  where  the  same  is  in 
hearing,  but  the  appellant  only  being  cast  to  be  liable 
to  damages  as  aforesaid. 


Appeals, 
when  to  be 
allowed. 


Damages, 
when  and  by 


OCTOBER,  1646— 2 1st  CHARLES  1st.  335 

ACT  XXIV. 

WHEREAS  it  was  inacted  in  the  11th  act,  1642,      Act  esta- 
That  the  surveyors  of  land  should   demand  no  more  veyors,g: 

of  sixe  mouths  old,  tsvo  laying  hens,  with  convenient 

apparell  both  linen  and  woollen,  with  hose  and  shooes, 

Aud  for  the  better  provision  of  howseing  for  the  said 

children,  It  is  inacted,  That  there  be  two  houses  built  House*  to  be 

by  the  first  of  April  next  of  forty  foot  long  apeece  with  hl,ili- 

good  and  substantial  timber,  The  houses  to  be  twenty  D,mensiou3- 

foot  broad  apeece,  eight  foot  high,  in  the  pitche  and  a 

stack  of  brick  chimneys  standing  in  the  midst  of  each 

house,  and  that  they  be  lofted  with  sawne  boardes  and 

made   with    convenient  partitions,  And   it   is  further       None  r 

thought  fitt  that  the  comissioners  have  caution  not  to  poor  children 

take  vp   any   children  but  from  such  parents  who  by  to  be  taken  up 

reason  of  their  poverty  are  disabled  to  maintaine  aud 

educate  them,  Bee  it  likeivisc  agreed.  That  the  Gover- 

nour   hath  agreed  with  the  Assembly  for  the  sume  of 

10000  lb.  of  tob'o.  to   be   paid  him  the  next  crop,  to 

build   and  finish  the  said  bowses  in  manner  and  form 

before  expressed. 


ACT   XXVI1L 

WHEREAS  the  necessity  of  the  warr,  now  happi-  Extraordinary 
ly  ended,  hath  occasioned  many  charges  and  imposi-  ^expenses 
tions,  which  the  collony  in  all  Christian  duty  to  their  ofthclate  war. 
own  safetyesjiave  been  enforced  to  vndergo,  aud  now 
in  honor  are  obliged  to  discharge,  which  they  could 
not  possibly  effect  without  this  tax  at  present  imposed, 
which  though  extraordinary   and  not  in   former  times 
to  be  paraleld,  yet  it  is  hoped   that  with  more  cheer- 
fullness  it  will    be  entertained  and  discharged  by  the 
inhabitants,  In  respect  of  the  great   blessing  of  peace 
that    cometh  along  with  it,  It  is  therefore   inacted  by 
this  Grand  Assembly,  That  the  sherr  :  of  the  severall 
countyes  respectively  do  leavy  if  occasion  be  by  dis- 
tresse,  And   make  such  payments  to  such  persons  and 
for  such  debts  as  are  herevnder  mentioned. 


ACT  XXIX. 

WHEREAS    the  inhabitants  of  Chicawane  alias  Inhabitants  of 

-        .  ,,  ,  Chicawane  or 

^Northumberland  being  members  of  this  collony  nave  ^'orthumber- 
not  hitherto  contributed  towards   the  charges  of  die  land  to  pay 
warr,  It  is    now  thought    fat  that  the  said    inhabi- 

2  T 


taxes  in  future. 


338  LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 

tants  do  make  payment  of  the  leavy  according  to  such 
rates  as  are  by  this  present  Grand  Assembly  assessed, 
(vizt.)  per  evrie  tithable  person  78  lb.  of  tob'o.  For 
every  hundred  acres  of  land  15  lb.  of  tobacco  3-4, 
For  every  cow  above  3  yeer  old  15  lb.  of  tobacco  3-4, 
And  that  such  a  person  whom  the  Govemour  shall 
think  fitt  to  appoint  shall  receive  and  collect  the  afore- 
said levy  and  give  an  account  thereof  to  the  next  As- 
sembly, then  to  be  disposed  of  according  to  further  or- 
der, And  it  is  alsoe  inacted  that  the  said  inhabitants 
of  Chicawane  shall  allwaies  hereafter  be  liable  to  all 
taxes,  and  in  paying  the  publique  levys  with  the  rest  of 
the  inhabitants  of  this  collony,  And  it  is  further  thought 
fitt  that  the  present  Governour  shall  have  the  free  dis- 
posall  of  what  tob'o.  shall  be  received,  the  certificate 
being  made  of  the  quantity  by  the  commander  of  the 
place,  and  the  Governour  to  be  accountable  for  the 
On  refusal,  to  same  at  the  next  Assembly,  And  in  case  the  said  inha- 
be  called  off  brants  shall  refuse  or  deney  payment  of  the  said  leavy 
plantation.  as  above  expressed,  That  vpon  report  thereof  made  to 
the  next  Assembly  speedy  course  shall  be  then  taken 
to  call  them  off  the  said  plantation. 

WILLIAM  BERKELEY. 
AMBROSE  HARMER,  Speaker, 


ATT  A 

HoLDEN  ATT  JaMES  ClTTV  THE  THIRD  OF  NoVEM- 

BER,  1647. 


[From  a  MS.  received  from  Edmund  Randolph,  Esq. 
which  was  once  the  property  of  Sir  John  Randolph, 
who  transmitted  it  to  his  son  Peyton  Randolph,  Esq. 
after  whose  death  it  was  purchased,  with  his  library, 
by  Thomas  Jefferson,  Esq.  from  whom  it  was  bor- 
rowed by  Edmund  Randolph,  Esq.] 

PRESENT  Sir  WILLIAM  BERKELEY,  Kn't, 
Governour,  &c. 

Capt.  John  West, 

Rich.  Kempe,  Seer. 

Capt.  Wm.  Broccas, 

Capt.  Thomas  Pettus,  )►  Esquires, 

Capt.  Wm.  Bernard, 

Capt.  Hen.  Browne, 

Mr.  Geo.  Ludlow, 

The  Burgesses  names  of  the  severall  countys 


O'The  MS. 
from  which 
the  acts  of 
this  session 
were  printed, 
is  now  in  the 
library  of 
Congress,  at 
Washington 


James  Citty  county 


Charles  Citty 
Elizabeth  Citty 

Yorke  County 


f  Capt.  Rob't.  Hutchinson, 
j  Capt.  Bridges  Freeman, 
Capt.  Robert  Shepheard, 
Mr.  George  Jorden, 
Mr.  Wm.  Davis, 
\^Mr.  Peter  Ridley. 

C  Capt.  Edward  Hill, 
(  Capt.  Francis  Poythers 

Mr.  Anth  :  Elliot, 
Mr.  John  Chandler, 
Mr.  Hen :  Poole. 

Mr.  Rich.  Lee, 
Capt.  Wm.  Tayler, 
Mr.  Fra:  Morgan, 


340 


What  deemed 

sufficient 

prisons 


Persons 
breaking  such 
prisons  to  be 
deemed  felons; 
and  commis- 
sioners, coun- 
ties and  she- 
riffs exonerat- 
ed. 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 

Vpper  Norff,* 

VVarw.  County 


Mr.  Moore  ffantlaroy, 
Mr.  Sam  :  Stoughton, 
Mr.  Richard  Wells. 


^  Capt.  Thos.  fflint, 
I  Mr.  Randle  Crew. 


Isle  of  Wight 


Lower  Norff. 


Capt.  John  Vpton, 
Mr.  John  George. 

f  Lei  ft.  John  Sidney, 
J  Mr.  Hen.  Woodhouse, 
}  Mr.  Cor.  Lloyd, 
^  My.  Tho.  Meeres, 

Mr.  E'd.  Scarbrough, 


North' on  County  \  , 

J  (Mr.  Steph.  Charleton, 

Northumberland — Mr.  Wm.  Presley. 
Henrico  county — Capt.  Tho.  Harris. 

ACT  J. 

WHEREAS  divers  escapes  have  been  made  by- 
prisoners,  and  more  likely  to  be,  tor  want  of  suffi- 
cient prisons  in  the  severall  countyes,  to  which  the 
poverty  of  the  countrey  and  want. of  necessaries  here 
will  not  admitt  a  possibillitie  to  erect  other  then  such 
houses  as  wee  frequently  inhabitt,  by  which  meanes 
much  damage  hath  arisen  to  the  severall  sherriffs,  co- 
missioners  and  counties  specially  for  want  of  interpre- 
tation what  shall  be  accompted  a  sufficient  prison  and 
what  provision  shall  be  made  against  prisoners  thence 
escaping  ;  Be  it  therefore  enacted,  That  such  houses 
provided  for  thai  purpose  shall  be  accompted  suffici- 
ent prisons  as  are  built  according  to  the  forme  of  Vir- 
ginia houses,  from  which  noe  escape  can  be  made  with- 
out breaking  or  forcing  some  part  of  the  prison  house, 
and  that  all  persons  so  offending  whether  debtors  or 
others  shall  be  pursued  and  adjudged  and  suffer  as  in 
case  of  fellony,  and  the  comissioners  and  countyes  to 
be  freed  from  any  charge   or  tax  to  be  imposed  vpon 


*  This  should  be  Nansinttim,  to  which  Upper  Norfolk  was  changed 
by  the  last  act  passed  in  March  16-15-6.      At  the  session  of  Ocrol 
1646,  Mansimund,  and  not  Upper  Norfolk,  was  represented  ;  as  appears 
to  be  the  case  in  the  sessions  succeeding  this. 


NOVEMBER,  1647— 22d  CHARLES  1st.  341 

them  by  any  such  escape  or  by  neglect  of  the  sherrifis,      Prison 

and  that  the  comissioners  may  have  power  to  appoint  bounds>  h°w 

such  reasonable  bounds  and  limitts  for  the  convenien- 

cle  and  accomodation  of  prisoners  in  the  day  time,  as 

by  ihem  shall  be  thought  reasonable,  and  all  prisoners      Prisoner 

soe  transgressine;  and  exceeding  the  said  bounds  to  be  ureak,ng 

i  i  i  »■•'*!  •  i  *»  *i  -ii  them  to  be 

kepi  close  and  secured  in  the  said  prison  att  the  perm  kept  jnc;0SP 

of  the  severall  sherrifTs.  custody. 


ACT   If. 

WHEREAS  certaine  occasions  of  greate  and 
weitrhtie  consequence  hath  been  considered  by  this  Adjournment 
present  Grand  Assembly  which  cannot  att  present  biy  to  Oct 
bee  fully  rietermined,  as  alsoe  the  inconveniencie  of  1648. 
manie  masters  of  fl'imilies  in  staying  from  home  at 
such  considerable  time  of  the  yeare.  Be  it  enacted  by 
this  present  Grand  Assembly  that  the  Assembly  be  ad- 
journed vntil  the  ffirst  day  of  October  next,  and  that 
all  members  of  both  houses  do  then  give  their  atten- 
dance att  James  Citty  without  any  pretence  whatsoe- 
ver to  the  contrary,  And  be  it  further  enjoyned,  That 
the  sherriffs  of  the  severall  countyes  do  present  vnto 
the  Assembly  vpon  the  sixth  day  of  October,  a  just  &. 
exact  list  of  all  taxable  goods,  land  and  tithable  per- 
sons, which  lists  are  to  be  carefully  taken  by  the  cornis- 
sioners in  their  severall  lymitts  or  such  persons  of  trust 
as  they  shall  think  fitt  to  employ,  and  the  last  yeares 
sherrifl's  to  bring  in  their  accompts  of  their  proceed- 
ings upon  the  last  yeares  levy  to  the  said  Assembl\r 
vppon  the  said  sixth  day  of  October. 


ACT  HI. 

ATT    A 

GRAND  ASSEMBLY 

HELD  THE  THIRD  OF  NOVEMBER,  1047. 

Present  vt  antea. 

VPON  divers  informations  presented  to  this  As-  Ministers  re 

sembly  against  severall  ministers  for  theire   neglects  fusing  to 

and    refractory  refuseing  after   warning  given    them  ^npr^er 

to  read  common  prayer  or  divine  service  vpon  the  Sab-  110t  entitird  u> 


342 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


any  tithes  or 
duties  from 
their  pa- 
rishioners- 


both  dayes  contrary  to  the  cannons  of  the  church  and 
acts  of  parliament  therein  established,  for  future  reme- 
die  hereof :  Be  it  enacted  by  the  GovV.  Council  and 
Burgesses  of  this  Grand  Assembly,  That  all  minis- 
ters in  their  severall  cures  throughout  the  collony  doe 
duel}7  vpon  every  Sabboth  day  read  such  prayers  as 
are  appointed  and  prescribed  vnto  them  by  the  said 
booke  ofcomon  prayer,  And  be  it  further  enacted  as 
a  penaltie  to  such  as  have  neglected  or  shall  neglect 
their  duty  herein.  That  on  parishoner  shall  be  compel- 
led either  by  distresse  or  otherwise  to  pay  any  manner 
of  tythes  or  dutyes  to  any  unconformist  as  aforesaid. 


Collectors  of 
public  levies 
to  be  appoint- 
ed, and  the 
sheriffs  no 
longer  bound 
to  receive 
them. 


Names  of 
'■ollectors. 


ACT  IV. 

WHEREAS  by  often  experience  late  Assemblies 
have  found  Jgreat  defaults  and  defects  in  receiving 
and  collecting  the  publique  leavies,  whither  occa- 
sioned by  the  vast  extent  of  divers  counties  or  the 
multitude  of  other  employments  of  the  sherriffs,  who 
have  hitherto  been  intrusted  therein,  or  some  other 
cause  in  neglect  or  otherwise,  all  and  in  each  part  equal- 
lie  prejudicial!  to  the  publique,  as  producing  the  same 
or  the  like  effect  in  bad  payments,  to  the  great  dishonor 
and  impairing  of  the  publique  credit.  Vpon  mature 
deliberation  to  remedie  and  redresse  the  like  mischeife 
hereafter,  It  is  enacted,  That  the  burden  of  collection 
be  taken  of  thesherriffs  as  too  disproportionate  for  soe 
few  to  vndergo,  and  that  collectors  be  appointed  for 
receiveing  and  gathering  in  of  all  levyes  by  this  pre- 
sent Grand  Assembly  assessed  in  such  bounds  and  ly- 
mitts  and  by  such  persons  as  are  specified  in  this  act, 
(vizt :) 

ffor  James  Citty  County. 

Capt.  Robert  Shepheard  from  Lawnes  Creeke  to  Sun- 
ken Marsh,  including  Hogg  Island. 

Mr.    Geo.  Jorden  from  Hogg  Island  to  the  Vpper 
Chippoakes. 

Capt  Bridges  flreeman  for  Chickahominy  and  Sandy 
Poynte. 

Mr.  Lancelett  Elay  for  the  mayne  Pohatan  and  Jame* 
Citty  Island. 


NOVEMBER,  1647— 22d  CHARLES  1st.  343 

Mr.  Richard  fford  for  Necke  of  Land  to  Wareham's 
Runns. 

Mr.  Peter  Ridley  for  Martin's  Hundred  and  this  side 
of  Keth's  Creeke. 

Which  said  collectors,  in  their  severall  lymitts  are  au-  Their  power 
thorized  to  aske  and  receive  the  severall  sumes  of  to-  and  duty. 
b'o.  by  this  present  Grand  Assembly  assessed,  and  in 
case  of  non-payment  are  authorized  with  the  same  and  Right  to  dis- 
the  like  power  of  distresse  that  ever  any  sheriff  had  train. 
or  might  have  had  by  any  act  formerly  made,  And  in 
case  of  distresse  made  by  any  of  the  said  collectors  Goods  to  be 
they  are  authorized  by  the  oathes  of  two  men  to  ap-  appraised, 
praise  the  goods  soe  distreyned  and  to  deliver  the 
surplusage,  ;f  any  be,  to  the  owner  of  the  goods,  and 
to  be  accountable  for  the  other,  And  it  is  further  en- 
acted that  where  any  person  is  defective  in  the  pay-      Collector 
ment  of  any  sume  assessed  in  tob'o.  for  want  whereof  may  tender 
the  collector  makeing  distresse  as  aforesaid,  in  such  framed  to 
case  the  collector  shall  give  notice  to  one  of  the  c.redi-  public  credit- 
tors  of  the   republique  and   tender  him  the  distresse,  or' 
and  in  case  of  his  refusal!,  by  the  oathe  of  the  collec- 
tor, the  republique  to  be  cleered  of  the  debt,  And  in 
case  after  notice  given  to  such  creditor,   he  shall   re-  Andif  he  re- 
fuse or  neglect  either   by  himselfe  or  his  assigne  to  fl>se,  such 
come  at  the  time  or  to  the  place  appointed  by  the  col-  ,ender  de^med 

i  i  *  i  -in  i  •  a  payment. 

lector,  that  in  such  cases  the  said  collector  making 
tender  before  sufficient  wittnes  of  the  goods  distreyned 
for  the  vse  of  the  said  creditor,  it  shall  be  accompted 
a  good  and  just  payment  to  the  creditor  from  the  coun- 
try :  And  further  be  it  enacted,  That  the  said  collec-  Collectors 
tors  in  their  severall  limitts  be  authorized  to  inquire  to  enquire 
into  concealed  estates  in  land,  &c.  not  brought  into  ' 


estates, 


list,    and   to  leavy  payment  of  the  same  according  to 

the  rate  of  assessment  by  this  Assembly  sett  downe  and 

ordered,  And  it  is  further  enacted,  That  the  collectors      To  deliver 

of  the  sev'rall  countyes  shall  give  vp  theire  accompts  their  books 

to  the  com'rs.  of  the  county  courts  who  are  to  certifie  court""  y 

the  same  to  the  next  Assembly  ;  And  this  act  is  to  con 

tinue  in  force  vntil  the  next  Assembly  and  no  longer.  of 


Limitation 
act. 


344 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


former  act 
directing  2 
acres  of  com 
per  pol  to  be 
planted  more 
strictly  en- 
forced. 


Constables 
to  present 
defaults,  and 
names  of  de- 
linquents in 
tending  their 
corn. 

Penalty  on 

^unstable  for 
neglect. 


On  commis- 
-  ioners. 


ACT  V. 

WHEREAS  it  was  enacted  att  a  Grand  Assembly 
bearing  dale  the  second  of  March,  a'o.  d'i.  1642,  that 
there  should  be  two  acres  of  come  planted  for  every 
working  hand  in  the  ground  throughout   the  collony 
either  in  Indian  or  English  grayne,  And  for  the  better 
execution  of  the  said  act,  It  was  then  ordered,  that  all 
constables  within  theire  severall  lymits  and  precincts 
should  take  a  view  of  every  man's  corne  vpon  the 
ground,  And  where  the  proportion  of  two  acres  should 
be  wanting  the  constables  of  the  said  lymitts  were  to 
present  their  defaults  to  the  com'rs.    of  the   county 
courts  who  by  the  said  act  were  required  to  make  in- 
quiry thereof;  And  were  ffurther  authorized  to  impose 
a  mulct  or  fyne  of  five  hundred  pounds  of  tob'o.  per 
acre  defective,  vpon  such  person  or  persons  whom  they 
should  find  delinquents  in  the  premisses  ;  One  halfe 
whereof  should  be  and  come  to  the  constable  or  anie 
other  informer  and  the  other  halfe  to  publique  vses  for 
the  good  of  the  county  where  the  offence  should  be 
comitted,  which  said  act  and  every  clause  therein  con- 
teined  is  confirmed  by  this  Grand  Assembly,  And  it  is 
further  enacted,  for  the  more  due  execution  hereof,  by 
which  defect  the  colionie  hath  much  suffered,  That  the 
said  constables  shall  not  onely  present  the  defect  of 
acres  planted  as  aforesayd,  but  shall  also  present  the 
names  of  such  who  shall  not  sufficiently  weed  and 
tend  the  due  proportion  enjoyned  ;  And  for  the  neglect 
of  any  constables  in  not  presenting  both  the  planting 
and  sufficient  tending  thereof,  that  the  comissioners  of 
the  county  courts  doe  impose  a  fine  of  five  hundred 
pounds  of  tob'o.  vpon  each  constable  soe  defaulting, 
to  be  disposed  of  as  aforesaid,  And  in  case  the  comis- 
sioners do  not  take  a  strict  care  in  takeingaccompt  of 
the  constables  in  the  execution  of  this  act,  that  then 
the  said  comissioners  shall  be  fined  at  the  discretion  of 
the  Gov'r.  and  Council,  or  in  case  any  information  be 
brought  to  the  Governour  of  such  neglect  in  the  com'rs. 
out  of  court  time  and  proved  before  him,  that  then  the 
said  comissioners  are  to  be  fined  att  the  pleasure  of 
i.he  Governour. 


NOVEMBER,  1647— 22d  CHARLES  1st.  H 

ACT  VI. 

BE  it  enacted  by  the  Governour,  Council  and  Bur-  See  post  pa. 

sresses,  that  all   1  awes  and  acts  formerly  made  and  es-  3y8>  477- 
"r  ,i.  •      ]  •  i         r  Appeals  lron> 

tabhshed  concerning  appeales   from  county  courts  to  cou'lity  to 

quarter  courts  and  from   quarter  courts  to  Assemblies  quarter  court! 

be   repealed  and   made  void,  And  that  no  appeales  de  a,ul  "om 

•  .  ciiiiirtcr  courts 

i'uturo  be  admitted  but  in  such  cases  and  in  such  man-  lo  assembly 
ner  as  herein  is  expressed  (vizt.)  That  noe  appeals  in  regulated', 
any  cause  of  what   value    soever  shall   be  admitted  or  |NoaPPea,s 

ii  -i  i    •         ■  r  lor  a  smaller 

allowed  to  any  person  either  plaintii  or  defend  t.  from  sum  than 

the  court  where  the  said  action  is  commenced  but  that  ^'^  ol 

the  judgment  of  the   court  shall  be  binding  and  con-  jejo^erT 

cludeing  to  all  intents  and  purposes,  provided  that  the  Nor'ampton 

cause  exceed  not  the  value  of  sixteen  hundred  pounds  ,;ol,"ty except 

of  tob'o.  or  tenne  pound  sterl.   North'ton  countie  ex-  not  to  adihit  of 

cepted,  which  in  respect  of  the  remoteness  from  James  any  appeal 

Citty  is  not  to  admit  of  any  appeale  in  any  action  vn-  u"d7">3000  ,b 

der  the  valew  of  three  thousand  two  hundred  pounds  of  jgao  sterl. 

tob'o.  or  twenty  pound  sterling:  And  it  is  further  en-  Judgqientof 

acted,  That  in  case  of  any  appeale  above  the  said  va-  alwoluMy^ 

lue  as  aforesaid  to  the  quarter  court,  that  order  orjudg-  binding  «ith- 

ment  of  the   quarter  court  shall  be  absolutely  binding  (H"  furt"er 

and  concludeing  without  further  appeale  therein  to  be  Security  for 

had  or  claimed,  The   appellant  to  putt  in  security  for  50  per  cent. 

50   per  cent,    for  dam.  according  to  the  valew  of  the  damages 
debt,  Provided  notwithstanding  any  thing  in  this  act 

to  the  contrary,  That  where  the  cause  in  tryail  shall  be  Appeals  to 

of  that  nature  that  noe  knowne  law  or  president  have  assemb|ymay 

...  .  .  r  .     .  be  allowed  to 

over-ruled    the  same,   in  such  cnuses  the  comissioners  settle  new 

to  have  power  to  referr  the  same  to  the  hearinge  of  a  points  of  law, 

Grand  Assembly.     In  which  causes  they  are  to  certi- 

fle  the  same  vnder  the  teste  of  their  clerke  and  to  cause 

the   parties  in    tryail  to  give  caution  for  their  appear-  K 

ance  at  the  next  ensueing  Assembly  :   This  Assembly  Or  where  the 

doth  further   likewise   declare,  That  all  causes   shall  '&**"**? 

,  J     ,     .  A  .  ..  .  ...  the  court,  in 

have   admittance   to    Assemblies  where  the  justice  o.  the  opinion  of 

any    courte   may  seeme  questionable,  reserveinge  to  theassembiyis 

themselves  to  be  the  onely  judges  in  cases  of  so  high  ques,lona  c 
a  nature. 


ACT  VII. 

BE  it  alsoe  enacted  for  the  clearing  of  all  doubts  &  Jurisdiction 
controversies,  and    for   the   better   vnderstanding  of  °  fr^urti 

2  V 


643 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA 


IS'or'aropt&n 

county 

excepted. 

Act  authoris- 
ing writs  to 
is9ue  under 
seal  of  secre- 
tary's office 
repealed  ;  k. 
writs  to  issue 
from  that  of- 
fice and  be 
signed  by  the 
governor. 


the  10th  act  of  the  19th  of  November,  a'o.  1645,  con- 
cerning the  tryall  of  all  causes  of  what  valew  soever  att 
county  courts,  That  noe  causes  are  to  receive  theire 
tryall  att  James  Citty  vnder  the  valew  of  1600  lb.  of 
tob'o.  or  tenne  pound  sterl :  or  if  the  parties  be  inha- 
bitants of  Northampton,  vnder  the  value  of  three  thou- 
sand two  hundred  pounds  of  tob'o:  or  twenty  pound 
sterl.  And  it  is  likewise  enacted,  That  the  16th  act  of 
the  19th  of  November,  anno  d'i.  1645  authorising  all 
writts  for  commencement  of  suits  att  the  quarter  court 
to  issue  from  the  secretary's-office  vnder  the  seale, 
shall  be  repealed,  and  that  de  futuro  all  writts  and  war- 
rants for  comencing  suits  in  the  quarter  courts  (which 
are  not  to  be  but  in  cases  above  the  aforesaid  value) 
are  to  issue  out  of  the  office,  and  to  be  signed  vnder 
the  hand  of  the  Governour,  in  which  causes  noe  appeale 
is  to  be  admitted  to  the  Assembly  but  with  such  pro- 
visoes as  in  the  former  act  (vizt.)  where  there  is  noe 
knowne  law  or  president  over-rulinge  the  same,  in 
which  case  the  courte  to  referr  to  the  Assembly  with 
such  cautions  and  lymitations  as  aforesaid. 


Poor  persons, 
imprisoned 
for  debt,  may 
be  discharged 
by  tendering 
property  to 
their  creditors 
to  be  apprais- 
ed by  two  men 
mutually  cho- 
sen for  their 
umpire. 


ACT    VIII. 

WHEREAS  divers  informations  are  presented  to 
this  Assembly  of  the  hard  vsage  of  divers  poor  per- 
sons by  a  long  and  tedious  imprisonment  of  their  bo- 
dyes  vpon  actions  of  debt  which  they  are  vnable  to 
discharge  in  kind,  though  very  willing  and  readie  to 
give  a  valuable  satisfaction  to  theire  creditors,  who  not- 
withstanding maliciously  and  perversly  refuse  such  sa- 
tisfaction to  tSie  vtter  retine  of  such  poore  indigent  per- 
sons, theire  wives  and  children  :  Bee  it  therefore  enact- 
ed for  the  releife  of  such  as  are  now  vnder  duresse  or 
destraint  or  hereafter  shall  be  imprisoned  for  debt, 
that  where  such  persons  do  or  shall  tender  a  valuable 
satisfaction  to  theire  creditors  by  the  appraisement  of 
two  honest  persons  one  to  be  chosen  by  the  creditor 
and  the  other  by  the  debtor,  such  creditor  shall  be 
tompelled  to  accept  of  the  same,  as  satisfaction  for 
theire  debt,  And  where  two  apprisors  chosen  cannot 
agree,  In  such  cases  the  two  next  adjoyning  comissi- 
oners  to  determine  the  value  of  the  goods  vnder  ap- 
praisement, satisfaction  to  be  given  to  the  creditor 
where  the  estate  of  the  debtor  remainetb 


- 


NOVEMBER,  1647— 22d  CHARLES  1st.  34? 

ACT   IX. 

WHEREAS  the  great  scarcity  of  come  is  like  to  Exportation 
produce  much  want  and  misery  to  divers  of  the  in-  ofjjraiu pro- 
habitants,  vnles  timely  prevention   be  made  bv  pro-  ^'^d011 

.....  '-  .      J    \,  .  .     •>    I  account  of 

nibiting  ol  exportation  ot  corne,  and  against  hoarding  the  great 

and  ingrossinge  thereof,  to   the   intent  to  exact  vpon  scarcity 
theire  poore  neighbours  by  extream  and  vnreasonable 

rates  to  the  vtter  vndoing  of  whole  (families  :    Bee  it  No  person  to 

therefore  enacted  by   this  Grand  Assembly  lhat  no  per-  se" ,,u!ian 

Jc        .1  •  r  ...  J  r  com  at  a 

son  tor  this  ensueinge  yeer  shall   exporte  any   man-  higher  rate 
ner  of  English  or  Indian  graine  or  corne  out  of  the  ly-  than  1001b. 
mitts  of  the  collony,  in  which  act  ail  strangers  as  well  ?f  tobacc#  * 
as  inhabitants  are  included  ;   And  for  preventing  of  all 
hoarding  and  ingrossing  of  corne,  It  is  alsoe  enacted, 
That  noe  person  or  persons  whatsoever  shall  sell,  bar- 
g*aine,  barter  or  exchange  any  Indian  corne  either  di- 
rectly or  indirectly  above  the  rate  or  valewofone  hun- 
dred pounds  of  tobacco  per  barrell,  vpon  the  penalty  PeaaJrj 
of  ffive  hundred    pounds  of  tob'o.  for  every  barrell  of 
corne  that  shall  be  exported  as  aforesaid,  The  moyetie 
of  which  fine  and   forfeiture  shall  be  and  come  to  the 
King's  Majestie  and  the  other  halfe  to  the  informer. 


ACT  X. 

VPON  the  petition  of  the  inhabitants  from  the  coi-  South  wavfc. 
Sedge    to  the   Vpper   Chipoaks,    including    the    said  P|!r!sh ,eSfa" 
Vpper  Chipo  ikes,   that  there    might  be  granted  vnto 
them  the  priviledge  of  a  parish  which  they  desire  may 
bee  called  Soutuwark  parish,  It  is  accordingly  assent- 
ed  unto  and  enacted,  provided  they  pay  and  satisfie  vn- 
to the  minister  of  James  Citty  all  customary  tithes  and 
dues  and  all  rates  and  taxes  allready   assessed  and  to 
be  assessed  for  and  toward  the  finishing  and  repair? 
ing  of  the  church  att  kJa:  Citty. 


ACT  XL 


WHEREAS  by    the  2d*  act  of  a  Grand   Assem-  Act  IV  ol 
%    a'o.     1645,    It     was   ordered    and    established  5«Si2f 


*  \rt  TV  of  tMs«?olIeettO0. 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA 


Millers  to 
provide  sta- 
tute weights 
and  scales. 
Penalty  for 
not  grinding, 
or  exacting 
more  than 
legal  toll 
or  not  provid- 
ing weights, 
k.c.  at  the  dis- 
cretion of  the 
nearest  coun- 
cillor or  com- 


for  reformeing  the  greate  abuse  of  Millers  in  exacting 
excessive  and  illegal!  toll  that  noe  person  or  persons 
vseing  or  occupyinge  any  mill  should  take  or  receive 
for  the  grindeing  of  any  graine  that  should  be  brought 
vnto  them  above  the  sixth  part  thereof  for  tolle,  which 
act  hath  not  taken  such  effect  as  was  intended  thereby 
in  respect  (as  is  conceived)  neither  penalty  was  impos- 
ed therein  vpon  the  offender  nor  the  execution  thereof 
was  given  in  direction  to  any  particular  officer,  It  is 
therefore  thought  jitt  to  in  large  the  said  act,  and  by 
vertue  hereof  to  require  all  millers  or  owners  of  mills 
to  provide  by  the  flirst  of  ffebruary  next  statute  weights 
and  scales,  by  which  they  are  to  receive  in  and  deliver 
out  all  grayne,  And  that  they  do  sufficiently  grinde  tiie 
sayd  grayne  soe  brought  vpon  such  penalty  in  case  they 
do  exact  beyond  the  said  proportion  for  grindeing,  or 
in  case  of  default  of  such  weights  and  scales,  or  (or  not 
sufficient  grindeing,  as  shall  be  thought  ritt  according 
to  the  discretion  of  the  next  adjoyning  councellor  or 
corrt'i. 


Act  establish- 
ing ferries  at 
the  expense  of 
county  repeal- 
ed. 

Co'ty  courts 
may  grant 
leavf:  to  esta- 
blish ferries  at 
the  instance  of 
individuals, 
and  fix  the 
rate?. 


ACT  XII. 

WHEREAS  the  great  charge  of  fferryes  in  many 
countyes  is  very  burthensome,  especially  to  some 
poore  people  scarce  att  all  makeing  vse  of  the  said  ffer- 
ryes, It  is  thought  jitt,  that  the  act  enjoyning  the  "keep- 
ing ol'fferrves  be  repealed,  And  in  case  any  places  shall 
be  found  necessary  to  have  fferrys  kept  there,  That  the 
county  courts  shall  have  power  to  grant  the  keeping 
of  the  said  fferrys  for  such  tyme  and  terme  of  yeares, 
and  for  such  rates  and  vpon  such  conditions  and  to 
such  persons  as  to  them  shall  seem  good  and  conveni- 
ent, not  charging  the  county  by  any  leavy  for  the  said 
fTerrys. 


Additional 
places  for  In- 
dians to  repair 
to  when  coin- 
ing on  iiiessa- 


ACT  XIII. 

IT  is  thought  fit t  to  condiscend,  That  Nicotowance 
or  any  other  Indians  comeing  vpon  messages  shall 
have  like  leave,  as  is  allreadie  by  act  of  Assembly 
granted  for  other  places,  to  come  in  and  repair  to  the 
houses  of  Capt.  Edward  Hill  att  Westover,  and  Capt. 
William  Tavler  att  Chjscake. 


\OVJvtfBER,lti4'J— -22d  CHARLES  1st.  340 

ACT  XIV. 

WHEREAS  by  act  of  Assembly  it  was  appointed,   Further  time 
That  such  people  as  were  driven  off  from  theire  plan-  6f3.y4t> 

fit  was  enacted,    That   there  should   be   no   dealing  repealed* & 

^_____  merchant 

"  Act  IV  of  this  collection 
>  Tiii.  refers  to  Art  XI.  of  Oct.  i«vt'  remove 

,  .   •  /•    ,.  /.i      •    i     i  v  ;1IH'  settle  on 

clamorous  necessities  ol  divers  ot  the  inhabitants  occa-  t))e  nor(h 
sioned  and  brought  vpon  them  through  the  mean  pro-  side  of  Cha's. 
duce  of  their  labours  vpon  barren  and   over- wrought  fnd  wppa- 

r         .  /■     i     •  ii    hannock  n- 

grounds   and   the  apparent  decay  oi  their  cattle    and  ver>  after  tne 
hoggs  for  want  of  sufficient  range,  which  after  serious  1st  of  Sep. 
consideration  they  had  found  and  vnanimously  agreed  16  9 
to  be  the  state  of  a  very  considerable  number  of  the  in- 
habitants, and  that  therefore  leave  might  be  forthwith 
granted  vnto  them  to  remove  and  seate  vpon  the  north 
side  of  Charles   River  and  Rappahanock  river;  The 
Governour  and  (  ouncill  vpon  debate  of  the  matter  did 
condescend    to  the  substance  of  their   desires  but  for 
reasons  of  state  to  them  appearing  importing  the  safe- 
ty of  the  people  in  their  seating,  did  think    fitt  to  re- 
straine  them  to  a  further   limitation  of  time  (vizt.)  to 
the  first  of  September  next :  And  for  their  better  as- 
surance to  the  intent  also  that  provision  might  be  made 
by  such  as  intend  to  remove  of  arms  and  amunition  &. 
other  accomodations  for  building  and  clearing,  It  was 
thought  fitt  that  an  act  should  pass  at  this  Assembly 
and  accordingly  it  is  enacted  by  the  Governour,  Coun- 

2  W 


354 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA 


Patents  to  is- 
sue in  the 
mean  time. 

Act    declar- 
ing it  felony 
to  go  to  the 
north  side  of 
Charles  ri- 
ver repealed. 
Proviso   as  to 
killing  wild 
cattle  or 
hog?. 


all  and  Burgesses,  That  at  the  said  prefixed  day  ot' 
the  first  ot*  September  and  from  that  day  and  not  be- 
fore it  shall  be  free  and  lawful]  for  an  J  of  the  inhabi- 
tants to  remove  themselves  and  their  familys  to  the  a- 
foresaid  north  side  of  Charles  River  and  Rappahanock 
River;  And  that  in  the  mean  time  it  shall  be  free  and 
lawfnll  for  all  persons  haveing  right  to  lands  to  make 
survey  and  take  out  patents  for  land  vpon  the  said  pla- 
ces :  And  it  is  further  thought  Jitt,  That  the  act  or- 
deining  it  to  be  fTelony  to  goe  to  the  north  side  of 
Charles  River  be  repealed  and  made  void  :  Provided 
that  it  shall  not  be  lawfull  for  any  person  or  persons  to 
kill  any  wild  cattle  or  hoggs  vpon  the  said  north  side 
without  licence,  first  obteined  from  the  Govrnour  fc 
iheire  soe  doing. 


i£aci>  couut} 
liable  for  its 
proportion  of 
public  taxes. 


Commissrs- 
may  distrain, 
or  take  the 
body  of  de- 
linquent in 
execution. 
County  to  be 
re-assessed 
to  make  good 
insolvencies, 
but  uo  insol- 
vencies to  be 
allowed  a- 
gainst  the 
public. 


ACT  III. 

WHEREAS'  through  the  default  of  some  par 
ticular  counties  in  payment  of  leavies,  It  hath  of- 
ten happened  that  the  burden  of  taxes  hath  been  aug- 
mented to  the  rest  of  this  collonie  who  had  formerly 
discharged  whatever  was  due  from  them,  ffor  preven- 
tion of  the  like  grievance  hereafter,  It  is  enacted,  that 
every  particular  county  shall  be  responsible  to  the  pub- 
lique  for  all  arrers  ffor  which  the  sherrifis  or  collectors 
have  taken  bill  or  have  otherwise  made  debts  to  the 
vse  of  the  country ;  And  that  the  said  bill  or  other  as- 
surances of  debts  aforesaid  be  delivered  vp  to  the  co 
missioners  of  the  county  respectively,  who  are  herein' 
authorized  to  distreine  vpon  the  debtors,  or  as  they 
shall  find  cause  to  imprison  their  persons  in  case  of  re- 
fusall  or  non-payment,  As  also  what  the  debtor  shall 
be  found  insolvent,  that  then  the  said  commiss'rs.  doe 
rate  the  county  per  poll,  according  to  custome  for  the 
satisfying  of  the  said  arrears,  And  that  no  arferes  to 
the  publique  de  preterito  be  allowed,  but  the  persons 
or  counties  as  aforesaid  defaulting  be  liable  thereto. 


A  guard  of 
10  men  al- 

rowed  the 


ACT  IV. 

VPON  consideration  had  of  some  treacherous  at- 
tempts threatened  by  the  salvages  towards  the  per- 
son of  the  Gov'r.  wherevnto  he  is  dayly  exposed  bv 


OCTOBER.  L648— 23d  CHAKLES  1st. 

reason  of  their  frequent  resort  to  him  vpoo  pretence  gov.  fan  - 
of  publique  negotiations,  as  also  being  sensible  of  the  aUed^ecfat* 
many  disarlections  to  the  government  from  a  schisma-  tempts  upon 
ticall  party,  of  whose  intentions  our  native  country  of  1,IS  ',l<>.l,.v 

t  111*    1  Jill  i'\  US 

England  hath  had  and  yet  hath  too  sad  experience,  and   wno  visit 
also  for  many  other  reasons  appearing  of  weight)  re-  bimonpre- 
eard  to  thi-  Assembly,    It  is  thought  fitt  and  enacted,  ,e,H.e  of  "V 
1  hat  the  Govern  r.  will  please  to  presse  ten  able  men  also  n  m  tiie 
with  arms  and  ainunition  competent  to  attend  vponhim  tii*j*ffc   ion 
as  a  guard  to  his  person  and  to  employ  them  in  such  ternment 
services,  either  in  publique  or  private  affaires  as  he  manifested 
shall  think  fitt,  and  that  for  their  salary  or  wages  of  by  aschisma-. 
each  person  there  be  leavied  two  thousand  pounds  of  hereandin 
tobacco,  in  toto  20000  lb.  of  tob'o.  from  the  publique  England 
the  next  year  (vizt.)  J 049.  Th'ir 


ACT  V. 
THIS   Assembly   haveing  knowledge  that   divers  Rccilal  OJ  " " 

•  p  ?  ...  .         complaints  of 

persons  vpon  occasion   of  a  presse  ot  souldiers    by  the  people, 
warrant  from  the  Govern'r.  or  by  order  from  the  Gov',r.  that  ihe  pre.« 
and  council  out  of  a  mistake  in  opinion  do  conceive  "!s,of  ?ohl1 
their  liberties  and  the  lawesof  the  collonie  thereby  in-  g0v.  &coun- 
fringed   and  themselves  particularly  injured,  the  au-  ng  by 
the  warr  vpon  any  emergent  occasion  to  which  power  ™|,lm°f- tlie 
in  the  comission  litterally  expressed,  we  may  not  pre-  &  instructi- 
sume  to  conceive  that  any  act  of  Assembly  can  add  ,,ns  to  thc  &°* 
strength  or  vigor,  but  that  all  his  Ma'ts.  subjects  are  in  Jhauhey"1*1 
loyaltie  and  in  due  obedience  to  his  sacred  Ma'tie.  ob-  ought  to  ob- 
liged  therevnto  :  And  we   ought  humbly  to  acknow-  know|edge 

i    j        i  •     hi    •  i  /•  i  •  i  •  •  i       "is  majesty  s 

ledge  his  Majesties  royal  care  of  his  subjects  in  estab-  royai  care  for 
lishing  such  a  power  wherein  are  naturally  placed  so  establishing 
many  concernments  to  the  peace  and  safety  of  all  good  such  a  pow" 
subjects,  many  accidents  not  admitting  delay  of  time 
nor  those  slow  motions  of  great  counsel  Is.  ., 


356 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


lax  on  pro- 
perty abo- 
lished and 
taxes  on  tiih- 
able  persons- 
only  retain- 
ed.' 


ACT  VI. 

IT  is  enacted,  That  the  act  of  Assembly  which  or- 
deined  all  Jeavyes  hereafter  to  be  made  should  be 
raised  from  lands,  horses,  mares,  sheepe,  &c.  from 
tithable  persons,  be  hereby  repealed  and  made  void,  it 
being  onely  intended  for  the  better  support  of  the  warr 
and  no  longer  to  continue  or  bee  in  force,  And  in  stead 
thereof  it  is  enacted,  according  to  custome  heretofore 
vsed  all  leavyes  be  hereafter  raised  vpon  tithable  per 
sons  by  the  poll. 


Collectors 
appointed  at 
the  last  as- 
sembly hav- 
ing perform- 
ed their  du- 
ties with  in- 
tegrity, col- 
lectors a- 
gain  to  be  ap- 
pointed. 


Power  oi 
distress 


Collectors  of 
Norampton 
and  E.  City. 


ACT  VII. 

BE  it  also  enacted,  That  whereas  through  the  great 
defaults  and  neglects  of  sherrifls  in  the  publick  collec- 
tion, the  credit  and  reputation  of  the  collonie  hatlj 
been  much  blemished,  the  last  Assembly  did  think  fitt 
to  order  that  collectors  in  several!  limits  by  them  ap- 
pointed should  for  that  year  be  authorized  for  the  ga- 
thering in  and  collecting  the  leavy,  which  this  Assem- 
bly have  found,  vpon  audit  of  their  severall  acco'ts. 
they  have  performed  with  great  integrity,  and  to  a  ve- 
ry small  matter  duly  discharged  (some  few  excepted.) 
That  there  be  collectors  again  appointed  by  the  comis- 
sioners  of  the  severall  counties  within  such  precincts 
and  lymitts  as  they  shall  think  fitt  for  the  gathering  in 
and  receiving  of  the  leavye  by  this  present  Grand  As- 
sembly assessed,  who  are  authorized  with  the  same  &; 
the  like  power  to  distreine  in  case  of  non-payment  as 
any  sherriff  or  sherrifls  by  vertue  of  any  act  of  Assem- 
bly might  doe  or  vsually  have  done  in  the  like  cas«s, 
Provided  that  notwithstanding  any  thing  in  this  act  to 
the  contrary,  That  Mr.  Nathaniel  Littleton,  Esquire, 
and  Mr.  Edmond  Scarbrough  have  the  power  of  col- 
lecting the  leavye  of  Northampton  county  ;  and  Mr. 
Anthony  Elliot  for  Elizabeth  county,  from  whom  the 
Gov'r.  is  pleased  to  accept  of  pay  and  to  discharge  the 
country  as  well  of  what  is  due  to  himselfe,  as  also  of 
what  is  due  to  Mr.  Morrison. 

WILLIAM  BERKELEY. 
THO  :  HARWOOP. 


OCTOBER,  1648-23d  CHARLES  lsr.  357 

ACT  VIII. 

Clerks  of 

IT  is  enacted  and  unanimously  agreed  vpon  bit  this  co  '-v  C('l,rts 

n  7/1  11        mi  T-     i     ■  »    *  to  produce 

present  brand  Assembly,    1  hat  each  clerke  ol  courts  their  acco'ts 
shall  produce  his  gene'll.  acco'ts.  to  the  said  court,  and  to  ti>eir  re- 
after  their  approbation,  their  dues  shall  be  seized  or*  by  courta^and 
the  collectors  by    way  of  distresse  in  case  they  deny  being  appro 
payment,  They    pavintr  the   collectors   for  receiving  ved  by  the 

fu   •  **!♦ 


OCTOBER,  l«49— 1st  OF  COMMONWEALTH.  j59 

Hpnrico — Mr.  Wm.  Hatcher. 

r\      1       r\,*„  S  Capt.  Edward  Hill, 

Charles  Cittv  1  AI  r  0.  ' 

(  Air.  diaries  Sparrow. 

(  Capt.  Thos.  Harwood, 
Warvv.  Count)-  2  Speaker, 

(  Mr.  John  Walker. 

Isle  of  Wiffht  5  Mr'  Gem'£e  Handy, 

We  or   wi0nt  JM|.   RobmPltt 


Nansimum 


S  Mr 
I  Mr 


Mr.  Jo.  Carter, 
Toby  Smith. 


L,,.     I    ,i   .,-,,•  S  Le\  t.  ^V m.  \\  orheh. 

Elizabeth  Critic   
pare  mens'  minds  and  inclinations  to  entertaine  a  good  late  king 

1. 1     .  /*     i*  •  i  ■         i  i        •   i  l*  diaries  l^t. 

ikemg  ol  their  contrivement,  by  casting  oleinishes  ot  and  of  t!i;„ 

dishonour  vpon  the  late  most  excellent  and  now  vn-  treasonable 
doubtedly  sainted  king,  and  to  those  close  ends  vindi-  principles  L 
eating  &.  attesting  the  late  proceedings  against  the  said  tne  republi- 
blessed  King  (though  by  so  much  as  they  may  seeme  cans, h» as- 
tro have  colour  of  law,  and  forme  of  justice,  they  may  persinghis 
be  truly  and  really  said  to  have  the  more  and  greater 
height  of  impudence.)  And  vpon  this  foundation  of  as- 

tiraes  the  appointment  was  made  by  a  resolution  of  the  burgesses ; 
at  others,  the  governor  was  appointed  by  an  act  of  assembly  ;  and 
not  unfrequcntly  a  collision  took  place  between  the  governor  and 
house  of  burgesses,  as  to  the  limitation  of  his  power,  which  always 

terminated  in    favor  of  the  rights  and  privileges   ot  the  house. 

lution  of  the  burgesses  of  April  30th,  1652 — March,  1655 — 
March  1657 — March,  1658 — March,  1659.  It  appears,  from  the 
proceedings  of  the  assembly  of  the  1st  of  April,  1658,  that  the  go- 
vernor and  council  undertook  to  dissolve  the  house  of  burgesses; 
but  they  peremptorily  refused  to  be  dissolved,  and  passed  a  number 
of  resolutions  declaratory  of  their  own  power,  and  denying  tb  **- 
agreed  vppon  by  the  honourable  the  Comissioners  for  Common^ 
the  Parliament  and  the  hon'ble.  the  Governour  and  wealth  of  F.n- 
Councill  of  State.  eland>  and  the 

J  colony  of 

FIRST,  That  neither  Governour  nor  councill  shall  Vir&""a 
be  obliged  to  take  any  oath  or  engagement  to  the 
Common-Wealth  of  England  for  one  whole  yeare,  And 
that  neither  Governour  nor  Councill  be  censured  for 
praying  for  or  speaking  well  of  the  King  for  one  whole 
yeare  in  their  private  houses  or  neighbouring  confer- 
ence. 

2dly.  That  there  be  one  sent  home  at  the  present 
Governour'a  choice  to  give  an  acrompt  to  his  Ma'tie  of 


366  LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA. 

the  surrender  of  his  countrey,  the  present  Governour 
bearing  his  charges,  that  is  Sr.  William  Berkley. 

3dly.  That  the  present  Governour,  that  is  Sr.  Willi- 
am Berkeley  and  the  Council  1  shall  have  leave  to  sell 
and  dispose  of  their  estates,  and  to  transporte  them- 
selves whether  they  please. 

4thly.  That  the  Governour  and  Council  though  they 
take  not  the  engagement  for  one  whole  yeare  shall  yet 
have  equall  and  free  justice  in  all  courts  of  Virginia 
vntill  the  expiration  of  one  whole  yeare. 

5thly.  That  all  the  Governour's  and  Councill's  land 
and  houses,  and  whatsoever  belongeth  to  them  bee  per- 
ticularly  secured  and  provided  for  in  these  articles. 

6thly.  That  all  debts  of  the  Governour's  by  act  of 
Assembly,  and  all  debts  due  to  officers  made  by  the 
Assembly  bee  perfectly  made  good  to  them,  And  that 
the  Governour  be  paid  out  of  the  goods  remaining  in 
the  countrey  of  the  Dutch  ship  that  went  away  cleer 
for  Holland  without  paying  his  customs. 

7thly.  That  the  Governour  may  have  free  leave  to 
hire  a  shipp  for  England  or  Holland  to  carrie  away  the 
Governour's  goods,  and  the  Councill's,  and  what  he  or 
they  have  to  transporte  for  Holland  or  England  with- 
out any  lett  or  any  molestation  of  any  of  the 
State's  shipps  attsea  or  in  their  rivers  or  elsewhere  by 
any  of  the  shipps  in  the  common  wealth  of  England 
whatsoever. 

8thly.  That  the  Capt  of  the  flbrte  be  allowed  satis- 
faction for  the  building  of  his  house  in  fforte  Island. 

9thly.  That  all  persons  that  are  now  in  this  collonie 
of  what  quality  or  condition  soever  that  have  served 
the  King  here  or  in  England  shall  be  free  from  all  dan- 
gers, punishment  or  niulkt  whatsoever,  here  or  else- 
where, and  this  art'e.  as  all  other  articles  bee  in  as 
cleer  termes  as  the  learned  in  the  law  of  arms  can  ex- 
press. 

lOthly.  That  the  same  instant  that  the  comissions  are 
resigned  an  act  of  indempnitie  and  oblivion  be  issued 
out  vnder  the  hands  and  seales  of  the  comissioners  for 
♦he  parliament.  And  that  noe  persons  in  any  courte  of 


MARCH,  1U51-2— 2d  OF  COMMONWEALTH.  S8t 

justice  in  Virginia  be  questioned  for  their  opinions  given 
in  any  causes  determined  by  them. 

1  lthly.  That  the  Govemour  and  Councill  shall  have 
their  passes  to  go  away  from  hence  in  anie  shipps  in 
any  time  within  a  year:  And  in  case  they  goe  for  Lon- 
don or  other  place  in  England  that  they  or  anie  of  them 
shall  bee  free  from  anie  trouble  or  hindrance  of  arrests 
or  such  like  in  England,  and  that  they  may  follow  their 
occasions  for  the  space  of  six  monthes  after  their  arri- 
vall. 

RICH  :  BENNETT,  Scale. 

Wm.  CLAIBORNE,    Scale. 

EDMOND  CURTIS,  Seale. 

Theise  articles  were  signed,  sealed,  sworne  vnto  by 
vs  the  commissioners  for  the  parliament  of  the  com- 
mon wealth  of  England,  the  12th  of  March,  1651. 


-An  Act  of  Indemqnitie  made  aii  the  Surrender  of  the 

Countrey. 

WHEREAS  by  the  authorise  of  the  parliament  of  de^  jj 
England,    wee    the  comissioners   appointed    by    the  concluding 
Councill  of  State  authorized  thereto  having  brought  a  the  treaty, 
fleete  and  force  before  James  Cittie  in  Virginia  to  re- 
duce that  collonie  vnder  the  obedience  of  the  common- 
wealth of  England,   and   finding  force  raised  by  the 
Governour  and  countrey  to  make   opposition  against 
the  said  ffleet,  whereby  assured  danger  appearinge  of 
the   mine  and  destruction  of  the  plantation,  for  pre- 
vention whereof  the  Burgesses  of  all  the  severall  plan- 
tations being  called  to  advise  and  assist  therein,  vppon 
long  and  serious  debate,  and  in  sad  contemplation   of 
the  greate   miseries  and  certaine  destruction,  which 
were  soe  neerly  hovering  over   this   whole  countrey  ; 
Wee  the  said  comissioners  have  thought  fitt  and  con- 
descended  and   granted  to  signe   and  confirme  vnder 
our  hands,  seales  and  by  our  oath,  Articles   bearinge 
date   with   theise  presents,    And    do   further   declare, 
That  by  the  authorise  of  the  parliament  and  comon- 

This  paper  is  numbered  "  Act  86,"  in  the  rcvisal  of  1657. 


368  LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 

wealth  of  England  derived  vnto  vs  theire  comission- 
ers,  That  according  to  the  articles  in  gennerall,  Wee 
have  granted  an  act  of  indempnitie  and  oblivion  to  all 
the  inhabitants  of  this  colloney,  from  all  words,  action? 
or  writings  that  have  been  spoken,  acted  or  writt  against 
the  parliament  or  comon  wealth  of  England  or  any 
other  person  from  the  beginning  of  the  world  to  this 
daye,  And  this  we  have  done,  That  all  the  inhabitants 
of  the  collonie  may  live  quietly  and  securely  vnder  the 
comon- wealth  of  England,  And  wee  do  promise  that 
the  parliament  and  common-wealth  of  England  shall 
confirme  and  make  good  all  those  transactions  of  ours, 
Wittnes  our  hands  and  seales  this  12th  day  of  March. 
1651. 

RICHARD  BENNETT,  Seale. 

Wm.  CLAIBORNE,  Seale. 

EDM.  CURTIS.  Seale. 


369 

HE  .NAMES  G*'  THE  SEVERALL  BURGESSES  RETURNED  BV 
THE    SHERRIFF   TO   THIS 


.d^riTZ  tfe  2GM,  1652.* 


[From  a. MS.  f  received  from  Edmund  Randolph,  Esq.  SfchSehS! 
which  was  once  the  property  of  Sir  John  Randolph,  of  this  session 
wAo  transmitted  it  to  his  son  Peyton  Randolph,  Esq.  were  P«»ted, 
o/ifer  whose  death,  it  was  purchased,  with  his  library,  library  of  Con- 
by  Thomas  Jefferson,  Esq.  from  whom  it  was  borrow-  gress,at  Wash- 
ed by  Edmund  Randolph,  Esq.]  in&ton 


For  Henrico  County — Mr.  Win.  Hatchet*. 

i  -L     i      n-~     r>  S  Coll.  Edward  Hill, 

Charles  Citty  Counlv  l    this,  and  a  few  sim\ 


Glocester  County*  |  JJr.  ^n$£* 

Lancaster  County* — 

The  oath  administred  to  the  Burgesses  : 

YOU  and  every  of  you  shall  swear  vpon  the  holy  0ath  °'  Bur 
Evangelist,  and  in  the  sight  of  God  to  deliver  your  gess 
opinions  faithfully  and  honestly,  according  to  your 
best  vnderstanding  and  conscience,  for  the  general! 
good  and  prosperitie  of  this  country  and  every  perti- 
cular  member  thereof,  and  to  do  your  vtmost  endeavor 
to  prosecute  that  without  mingling  with  it  any  perticu- 
lar  interest  of  any  person  or  persons  whatsoever. 

JOHN  CORKER,  CI.  Dom.  Com 


AT  THE 

Jamf.s  Cttty.  the  30th  Apru.l,   1652. 


AFTER  long  and  serious  debate  and  advice  taken 
for  the  settleing  and  governing  of  Virginia,  It  was 
vnanimously  voted  and  concluded,  by  the  commis- 
sioners appointed  here  by  authority  of  parliament  and 
by  all  the  Burgesses  of  theseverall  countysand  planta- 
tions respectively,  vntill  the  further  pleasures  of  the 
states  be  knowne :  That  Mr.  Richard  Bennett,  Esq. 
be  Governour  for  this  ensuinge  yeare,  or  vntill  the  next 
meeting  of  the  Assembly,  with  all  the  just  powers  and 
authorities  thatmay  belong  to  that  place  lawfully :  And 
likewise  that  Collo.  William  Clayborne  be  Secretarie 
of  State,  with  all  belonging  to  that  office,  and  is  to  be 
next  in  place  to  the  Governour,  next  that  the  Councill 
of  State  be  as  followeth,  (vizt.)  Capt.  John  West,  Coll. 
Sam.  Mathewes,  Coll.  Nathaniel   Littleton,  Coll.  Ar- 


Provisional 

government 
of  Virginia 
till  the  plea- 
sure of  parli- 
ament be 
known. 

Gov.  chosen, 
for  one  year 


Secretary  of 
state 


Council  of 
State. 


I  his  is   the   first  time    the    names  of  Gloucester  and   Lancaster 
omitics  occur      When  or  how  thev  were  formed,  does  not  appear 


:)V2 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


Their  powers, 
to  be  prescrib- 
ed by  the  par- 
liament in 
England,  the 
known  laws  of 
England,  and 
the  grand  as- 
sembly of  Vir- 
ginia 


goll  Yearly,  Coll.  Tho.  Pettus,  Coll.  Humph.  Higgi- 
son,  Coll.  George  Ludlow ;  Coll.  Wm.  Barnett,  Capt. 
Bridges  (freeman,  Capt.  Tho.  Harvvood,  Major  Win. 
Taylor,  Capt.  (Francis  Epps  and  Leiv'tt.  Coll.  John 
Cheesman,  and  they  shall  have  power  to  execute  and 
do  right  and  equall  justice  to  all  the  people  and  inha- 
bitants of  this  collony  according  to  such  instructions  as 
they  have  or  shall  receive  from  the  Parliament  of  Eng- 
land and  according  to  the  knowne  lawe  of  England : 
And  the  acts  of  Assembly  here  established  ;  And  the 
said  Governour,  Secretary  and  Council  of  State  are  to 
have  such  power  and  authorities  and  to  act  from  time 
to  time,  as  by  the  Grand  Assembly  shall  be  appointed 
and  granted  to  their  severall  places  respectively  for  the 
time  abovesaid  :  of  which  all  the  people  which  inhabitt 
or  be  in  this  country  are  hereby  required  to  take  notice 
and  accordingly  conforme  themselves  therevnto.  God 
save  the  Common-Wealth  of  England  and  this  coun- 
trey  of  Virginia.  (Rand.  MS.    Jef.  MS.) 


Comm'rs.  of 
counties  cho- 
sen by  the 
house  of  bur- 
gesso? 


Election  ol 
all  ofliccrs  to 
be  made  by 
ihe  burgesses. 
Present  c!oanca 


IN  the  difference  between  Mr.  Peter  Hanson,  pit. 
and  John  Hewettand  Win.  Holder,  defend'ts.  It  is  or- 
dered by  this  Grand  Assembly  that  Mr.  Peter  Ran- 
son's  pattent  shall  stand  good  for  11 00  acres  of  land  in 
Mock-Jack  bay,  And  that  Hewett  and  Holder  be 
outed  and  decline  the  possession  till  it  be  made  appeare 
void  by  some  that  shall  make  better  right  appeare,  It 
now  appearing  that  none  pretending  to  it  in  the  right 
of  Dawber  have  power  to  question  his  title;  100  lb.  of  Costs 
tob'o*  being  allowed  him  for  costs  from  each  of  them 
(vizf)  100  lb.  of  tobacco  from  Holder,  and  100  lb.  of 
tobacco  from  Hewett,  alias  execution.    (Rand.  MS.) 


Ransom  vs 

Hewrll  and 
Holder,  for 
land  on 
Mock- Jack 
bav. 


IT  is  ordered  by  the  Grand  Assembly,  that  Mr. 
Peter  Ranson  shall  have  and  enjoy  1100  acres  of 
Land  in  Mock- Jacks  bay  on  the  North  River  of  Mock- 
Jacks  bay  on  the  easterne  side  thereof,  and  the  other 
500  acres  being  granted  to  Mr.  Wm.  Whitby  being  the 
first  grantees  bv  this  Assemblv  (Rand.  MS.) 


Kansotn  » 
land  on  Mock 
Jack  bay, 
how  located 


:j7ti 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA. 


Occupants  of 
Dawber's 
land  not  to 
be    disposses- 
sed but  by 
Dawber    him- 
self. 


Inhabitants 
of  Appaniat- 
tock  may 
hold  courts. 


Appeals  to 
Henrico  or 
Charles  City 
co'ty.  courts. 


IT  is  ordered  by  the  Asssembly  that  all  those  that 
are  in  actual  possession  of  the  2400  acres  of  the  land 
claymed  by  Edmund  Dawber  shall  not  be  dispossest  of 
the  land  they  so  hold  by  any,  except  by  the  said  Daw- 
ber if  he  proove  his  title  to  bee  justestthe  said  2400  a- 
cres  being  granted  to  Mr.  William  Daymes,  if  Mr. 
Dawber  enjoy  it  not.  (Rand.  MS.) 


IT  is  ordered  by  the  Assembly,  That  the  inhabitants 
of  Appamattock  River  shall  have  power  to  keep 
courts  according  to  the  sence  of  the  act  of  Assembly 
for  courts  in  the  like  nature,  to  hear  and  determine  all 
differences  within  the  said  parish,  which  said  court  is 
to  be  kept  by  the  comissioners  resideing  in  the  said  pa- 
rish of  Bristoll,  and  they  to  take  place  respectively  as 
by  act  of  Assembly  they  are  nominated ;  appeals  lying 
from  this  court  to  either  Henrico  county  or  Charles 
Citty  county  court,  as  also  to  have  power  to  treate 
with  the  Indians  according  to  act. 

(Rand.  MS.  Jef  MS.) 


Comm'rs.  of        IT  is  ordered  with  the  vnanimous  opinion  of  this 
counties,  house,  That  the  Governour  and  councill  shall  appoint 

how  nominated  .     .  .  ,  ...  *  *      , 

and  appointed  comissioners  in  each  county  respectively  vpon  the 
recommendation  of  the  persons  from  the  comissioners 
of  the  severall  county  courts,  as  they  see  cause  to  al- 
low such  recommendations. 

(Rand.  MS.  Jef.  MS.)  } 


Comin'rs.  01 
counties  to 
examine  lists 
of  tithables 
and  fine  she- 
riffs, &c. 


IT  is  ordered  by  the  Grand  Assembly,  That  the  co- 
missioners of  the  severall  counties  respectively  have 
power  to  examine  the  lists  of  the  tythables  of  the  said 
countyes,  and  where  they  find  them  not  to  be  fully  ta- 
ken, to  lay  a  fine  vpon  the  sherriff  or  them  that  took 
the  lists,  as  they  shall  think  fitt,  and  such  further  pu- 
nishment as  by  the  Assembly  is  provided. 

(Rand.  MS.    Jef.  MS.) 


Discoveries 
W.  and  S. 
encouraged. 


WHEREAS  an  act  was  made  in  the  Assembly, 
1642,  ffor  Encouragement  of  discoveries  to  the 
westward   and   southward  of  this  country,  granting 


JUL*,  1653— 4th  OF  COMMONWEALTH.  377 

diem  all  prolilts  arising  thereby  for  14  years,  which  act  Privilege  for 
is  since  discontinued  and  made  void  ;    It  is  by  this  As-  certainadven- 
sernbly  ordered,  That  Coll.  Wm.  Clayborne,  Esq.  &  turers. 
Capt.  Henry  Fleet,  they  and  their  associats  with  them 
either  joyntly  or  severally,  May  discover  and  shall  en- 
joy such  benetitts,  profitts,  and  trades,  for  14  years  as 
they  shall  find  out  in  places  where  no  English  ever  have 
bin  and  discovered,  nor  have  had  particular  trade,  and 
to  take  vp  such  lands  by  pattents  proveing  their  rights 
as  they  shall  think  good  :  Neverth*  lesse  not  excluding 
others  after  their  choice  from  takeing  vp  lands,  and 
planting  in  these  new  discovered  places,  as  in  Virginia 

now  vsed. 

The  like  order  is  granted  to  Major  Abra.  Wood  and  Otheradven- 
his  associates.  (Hand.  MS.)       turers- 


\TT  A 

July  the  5th,  1653. 


tJENTLEMEN", 

NOT  to  intrench*  vpon  the  right  of  Assem-  Letter  of  the 
blies  in  the  free  choice  of  a  speaker,  nor  to  vnderva-  &overnor  to 

i  *  tiic  house  oi 

lue  Lefit.  Coll.  Chiles,  but  onely  by  way  of  advice,  It  burgesses  on 
is  my  opinion,  the  Council  likewise  concerning^  there-  ,he  choke  of 
in,  That  it  is  not  so  proper  nor  so  convenient  att  this  a  sPeaker- 
time  to  make  choice  of  him  for  that  there  is  something 
to  be  agitated  in  this  Assembly  concerning  a  shipp  late- 
ly arrived,  in  which  Left.  Coil.  Chiles  hath  some  inte- 
rest, for  which  and  some  other  reasons  we  conceive  it 
better  at  present  to  make  choice  of  some  other  person 
amongst  you  whom  you  shall  agree  vpon. 
Your  reall  servant, 

RICH.  BENNETT. 
July  the  5th,  1653. 
Vera  copia, 

JOHN  CORKER,  CI.  to  the  Burgesses. 
(Rand.  MS.  Bh  MS.) 

I,     ■      !,,"  Bl.  US 
t  "  Concerning"  in  both  MSS.— But  qu,  if  it  should  not  be  "  con- 
>«■ 

2Z 


378 


LAWS  OF  VlRGliMa 


Oath  of  biu- 


The  oath  administred  to  the  Burgesses  tor  this  pre- 
sent Assembly. 

YOU  shall  swear  to  act  as  a  Burgesse  for  the  place 
you  serve  for  in  this  Assembly,  with  the  best  of  your 
judgment  and  advice,  for  the  generall  good,  not  min- 
gling with  it  any  perticular  or  private  interest. 

This  oath  was  taken  by  the  Burgesses  in  the  pre- 
sence of  Coll.  Thomas  Pettus  and  Coll.  Humphrey 
Higgison,  this  5th  July,  1653.* 
Teste, 

ROBERT  HUBERD  CI  Consilii. 
(Rand.  MS.     Bl.  MS.) 


Message  to 
the  gov'r,  on 
the  choice  of 
a  speaker. 


IT  is  ordered,  that  Lev'tt.  Coll.  Edward  Major,  Le~ 
v't.  Coll.  Geo.  filetcher,  Mr.  William  Hockaday  and 
Mr.  William  Whittby,  attend  the  Governor  and  Coun- 
cil, to  request  of  them  their  reasons,  wherefore  they 
cannot  joy  ne  with  vs  the  Burgesses  in  the  busines  of 
this  Assembly,  about  the  election  of  Lev't.  Coll.  Wal- 
ter Chiles  for  Speaker  of  this  Assembly. 

(Rand.  MS.     Bl.  MS.) 


ihe  lious 
permit  their 
speaker  to 
resign. 


LEF'T.  Coll.  Walter  Chiles  haveing  by  plurality 
of  votes  been  chosen  Speaker  of  this  Assembly  :  And 
this  day  representing  to  the  house  his  extraordinarie 
occasions  in  regard  of  the  dispatch  of  some  shipping 
now  in  the  country  in  which  he  is  much  interested  and 
concerned,  The  house  vpon  his  desire  have  given  him 
leave  to  follow  his  private  affairs  notwithstanding  the 
election  aforesaid.f 

(Rand.  MS.     Bl.  MS.) 


Minister  of 
the  gospel 
suspended  ii 
declared  ine- 
ligible to  a 
seat  in  the 
house  of  Inn- 
ges»;ps 


IT  is  ordered  by  this  present  Grand  Assembly,  That 
Mr.  Robert  Bracewell,  Clarke,  be  suspended,  and  is 
not  in  a  capacitie  of  serving  as  a  Burgesse,  since  it  is 
vnpresidentiall,  and  may  produce  bad  consequence. 

(Rand.  MS.     Bl.  MS.) 


1652  in  Bl.  MS.  but  evidentlv  a  mistake. 
July  the  6th,  1653,"  added*  to  this  clause  in  Bl.  MS 


JULY,  1653-^th  OF  COMMONWEALTH.  379 

The  names  of  the  Burgesses  for  the  severall  Plantations, 

July  the  5th,  Anno  1653. 

James  Cittie.  Isle  of  Wight  County. 

Left.  Coll.  Chiles,  Left.  Coll.  Robert  Pitt, 

Mr.  Wra.  Whittaker,  Major  Geo.  ffowden, 

Mr.  Hen.  Soane,  Mr.  Dan  Boucher. 
Mr.  Abra.  VVattson. 

Surry  Countie. 


Northampton. 


Capt.  Tho.  Johnson. 
Cap.  Wm.  Buttler,  Mr.  Wm  Mellin, 

Mr.  Wm.  Edwards,  Mr.  Stephen  Horsey. 

Warwick  County,  Lancaster  County. 

Left.  Coll.  Sam.  Mathews,  Capt.  Moore  ffantlaroy, 
Mr.  Wm.Whittby,  Spk'r.   Capt.  Tho.  Hackett. 

Charles  Cittie  County.  York  County. 

Capt.  John  Bushopp,  Major  X'p'r  Calthropp, 

Mr.  Anthony  Wyatt.  Mr.  Robert  Booth, 

Mr.  Wm.  Hockaday. 
Nansemund.  Capt.  Fra.  Morgan. 

Coll.  Tho.  Dew,  ,  -    .,      7    7     -, 

t    r.  ^  ii  it- j    ij  it  •  Northumberland. 

Left.  Coll.  Edw'd.  Major, 

Mr.  Peter  Montague.  Left.  Coll.  Fletcher, 


Loiver  Norfolk. 


Mr.  Walter  Broadhurst. 

Henrico  County. 


Coll.  Francis  Yarly, 

Left.  Coll.  Corn.  Lloyd,    Capt.  Wm.  Harris. 

Gloster  County.  Elizabeth  Cittie  County. 

Mr.  Abra.  Iversonn,  Mr.  John  Sheppard, 

AFr.  Richard  Pate.  Mr.  Tho.  Thornbury. 

[In  the  Bl.  MS.  several  pages  are  occupied  with  pro- 
ceedings against  different  persons  for  speaking  con- 
temptuously of  the  government  of  Virginia,  as  estab- 
lished by  the  convention,  and  for  refusing  to  pay  the 
castle  duties ;  some  of  whom  were  fined  and  imprison- 
ed.! 


380 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA. 


Paper  sub- 
scribed by  in- 
habitants of 

Nor'amton 
county  held 
scandalous  &: 
seditious. 
Subscribers, 
together  with 
Edm'd.  Scar- 
brough  disa- 
bled from 
holding  any 
office.  Gov.  &i 
Sec'y  to  go  to 
Accomack. 


WHEREAS  the  paper  subscribed  by  name  of  the 
inhabitants  of  Northampton  countie  is  scandalous  and 
seditious  and  hath  caused  much  disturbance  in  the 
peace  and  government  of  that  county,  It  is  therefore 
ordered  by  this  present  Grand  Assembly,  That  all  the 
subscribers  of  the  said  paper  bee  disabled  from  bearing 
any  office  in  this  countrey,  and  that  Leift.  Edmund 
Scarbrough  who  hath  been  an  assistant  and  instru- 
ment concerneing  the  subscribing  of  the  same  bee  also 
disabled  from  bearing  any  office  vntill  he  hath  answered 
therevnto,  and  the  honourable  Governour  &t  Secretaric 
be  intreated  to  go  over  to  Accomack  with  such  assist- 
ants as  the  house  shall  think  fitt,  for  the  settlement  of 
the  peace  of  that  countie,  and  punishinge  delinquents. 
This  order  reversed  by  an  order  of  Assembly,  26th 
March,  1658.  (Rand.  MS.   Bl.  MS.) 


Provision  for 
Tottopotto- 
raoy,an  Indian 
in  York  coun- 
ty. 


Those  seated 
on  the  lands  of 
Pamunkey  or 
Chickahomi- 
ny  Indians  to 
be  removed. 


THE  order  of  the  last  Assembly  in  the  busines  re- 
lateing  to  land  in  York  River  desired  by  Tottopotto- 
moy,  as  information  by  some  perticular  members  of 
this  Assembly  is  now  represented,  is  ordered  to  be  and 
remaine  in  force  as  formerly,  Provided  he  lives  on  the 
same  :  but  if  he  leaves  it  then  to  devolve  to  Coll.  Wil- 
liam Claybornc,  according  to  former  orders  which 
gave  him  libertie  to  make  his  choice,  whether  he  would 
have  Ramomak,  or  the  land  where  now  he  is  seated, 
and  that  he  appear  in  person  before  the  Governor  and 
Council  to  make  his  choice  the  next  quarter  court©' 
which  of  the  two  seates  he  will  hold,  and  Capt.  John 
West,  and  Mr.  William  Hockaday  are  enabled  to  give 
a  safe  conduct  to  the  said  Toltopottomoy  and  his  In- 
dians for  their  coming  to  towne  and  his  returne  home, 
And  the  commissioners  of  York  are  required  that  such 
persons  as  are  seated  vpon  the  land  of  Pamunkey  or 
Chickahominv  Indians  be  removed  according  to  a  late 
act  of  Assembly  made  to  that  purpose,  And  Coll.  John 
Fluddto  go  toTottopottomoy  to  examine  the  proceed- 
ings of  busines  and  to  deliver  it  vpon  his  oath. 

(Rand.  MS.  Bl.  MS.) 


Grant  of  land  VPON  the  petition  of  Roger  Green,  clarke,  on  the 
MomuckoT  behalfe  of  hinisefre,  and  inhabitants  of  Nanse- 
Poanoako  ri-    mund  river,  It  is  ordered  by  this  present  Grand  As- 


r    JULY,  1653— 4th  OF  COMMONWEALTH.  ^i 

sembly  that  tenn  thousand  acres  of  land  be  granted  vn-  ver  '•  also  on 
to    one  hundred  such  persons  who  shall  first  seate  on  ™"'  J*!!1:?  °l 

«~»  i         •  ill  i-iiodii  river. 

iVIoratuck  or  RoanoaUe  river  and  the  land  lying  vpon 
the  south  side  of  Clioan  river  and  the  branches  there- 
of, Provided  that  such  seaters  settle  advantageously  for 
security,  and  be  sufficiently  furnished  with  amunition 
and  strength.  And  it  is  further  ordered  by  the  autho- 
rity aforesaid,  That  there  be  granted  to  the  said  Roger 
Green,  the  rights  of  one  thousand  acres  of  land,  and 
choice  to  take  the  same  where  it  shall  seem  most  con- 
venient to  him,  next  to  those  persons  who  have  had  a 
former  grant  in  reward  of  his  charge,  hazard  and  trou- 
ble of  first  discoveiie,  and  encouragement  of  others 
for  seating  those  southern  parts  of  Virginia. 

(Rand.  MS.) 

WHEREAS  diverse  gentlemen  have  a  voluntarie      Travels  of 
desire    to  discover  the  Mountains  and  supplicated  for  discovery  to 
lycence  to  this  Assembly;  It  is  ordered  by  this  Assem-  „&£££!** 
bly,    That  order  be  granted  vnto  any  for  soe  doing, 
Provided    they   go    with    a  considerable    partie   and 
strength  both  of  men  and  amunition.    (Hand.  Mi>.) 


boundaries  of. 


IT  is  ordered  by  this  present  Grand  Assembly  that  Westmore- 
the  bounds   of   the    county  of  Westmorland*    be  as  )and  cou.nty> 

-met  •  ■  t»  w  hftunnai'ifte  r*\ 

followeth  (vixt.)  ffrom  Machoactoke  river  where  Mr. 
Cole  lives :  And  so  vpwards  to  the  ffalls  of  the  great 
river  of  Pawtomake  above  the  Necostius  towne 

(Rand.  MS.) 


sons 


VPON  the   humble  petition  of  John  Claxsonn  an  Briefs  to  col- 
old  Virginian,    and  the  testimony  of  the  comissioners   'ect  charitable 
of  the  countie  of  Yorke  where   hee  lived  of  the  great  granted  to 
loss  he  sustained  by  ftireto  his  vtter  vndoeing,  not  able  certain  per' 
to  maintain  himselfe  and  five  children,  The  Grand  As- 
sembly duely  weighing  his  distressed  estate  hath  grant- 
ed him  the  said  Claxsonn,  an  order  as  a  breife  to  gather 
the   charitable   benevolence  of  well  disposed  persons. 
The  like  also  is  granted  vnto  Thomas  Bagwell  of  the 
Isle  of  Wight  county  and  to  Richard  New  of  James 
Cittie  county.  (Hand.  MS.) 

'  This  is  the  first  time  (he  county  ■■  moreland  i  men- 

liMod 


382 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


Indians  of 
Glo'ster  and 
Lancaster 
counties  to 
have  lands  &. 
hunting 
ground  as- 
signed to 
fhem. 


IT  is  ordered  by  this  Grand  Assembly  that  the  co- 
missioners  of  Gloster  and  Lancaster  countys  are 
stricktly  required  forthwith  to  proportion  the  Indians 
inhabiting  in  the  said  counties  their  severall  tracts  of 
land  according  to  an  act  of  the  last  Assembly  in  that 
case  made,  and  to  sett  and  assigne  them  such  places 
and  bounds  to  hunt  in  as  may  be  convenient,  both  for 
the  inhabitants  and  the  Indians,  whereby  the  severall 
stocks  of  the  Enelish  may  be  preserved. 

(Rand.  MS.    Bl.  Ms.l 


An  act  of  in- 
demnity to 
those  who 
have  lent 
guns  to  Indi- 


AN  act  of  indempnitie  is  granted  for  all  such  as 
have  lent  gunns  to  the  Indians,  and  if  any  person 
shall  hereafter  offend  and  justly  prooved  against  him, 
he  or  they  so  offending  shall  suffer  seveerly  according 
to  act  in  that  case  provided,  other  counties  to  have  the 
same  priviledge.     (Rand.  MS.   Jef.  MS.  Bl.  MS.) 


Castle  duties 
to  be  paid ; 
and  how  re- 
coverable. 


IT  is  ordered  by  this  present  Grand  Assembly  that 
the  castle  duties  shall  be  recovered  by  auy  refracto- 
ry person's  denying  the  payment  thereof  as  hath  for- 
merly bin  accustomed  by  way  of  action  in  any  courte 
or  attachment  of  their  goods  and  estates  to  that  value. 
(Rand.  MS.    Jef.  MS.  Bl.  MS.) 


Certain  for- 
feited goods 
remitted. 


IT  is  ordered  by  this  present  Grand  Assembly  upon 
the  petition  of  Paulus  Maeshouck,  servant  to  Abra- 
ham Van  Susteren,  merchant  of  Dunkirk,  that  part  of 
the  goods  forfeited  belonging  to  his  said  master  is  re- 
mitted. (Bl.  MS.) 


Hie  ship  Le- 
opoldus  for- 
feited for 
breach  of  na- 
vigation act 
Co  be  deliver- 
ed to  Coll. 
Walter  Chiles 
at  the  ap- 
praisement. 


UPON  the  petition  of  Leiut.  Coll.  Walter  Chiles, 
It  is  ordered  by  this  present  Grand  Assembly  that  the 
ship  Leopaldus  now  adjudged  fforfeited  and  consign- 
ed unto  him  that  he  the  said  Chiles  should  have  the 
said  ship  according  as  she  hath  been  appraised  being 
£400  sterling  *  (Bl.  MS.) 

*  The  following  is  the  Bill   of  Sale  executed   by  the  Governor  and 
Speaker  of  the  House  of  Burgesses — 
Whereas  the  ship   Leopoldus  of  Dunkirk   hath  by  the  grand  as- 
sembly of  this  country  been   adjudged  forfeit  and  accordingly  con 


JULY,  1653— 4ih  OF  COMMONWEALTH.  383 

UPON  petition  of  the  comm'rs.  of  the  Isle  of  Wight   Arrearages  tf 

1  .  ^i  /.    ,.  /y  to  call   Mr.   Edward   Diggs,   Esq.  to  be  one  of  thr 

I-«ncTto  bt  Councill,  if  the  Assembly  shall  like  thereof,  and  gigni- 

one  of  the  fie  their  approbation  and  concurrence  therein,  Novem, 

council.  22,  1654. 

RICHARD  BENNETT. 


Approved  by 
the  assembly 


IT  is  vnanimously  consented  vnto,  he  haveing  given 
a  signal  testimony  of  his  fidelity  to  this  collony  and 
Common-Wealth  of  England. 

CHA :  NORWOOD,  Cler.  Assem. 
(Rand.  MS.    Bl.  MS.) 


NOV.  1G54— 5th  OF  COMMONWEALTH.  3^ 

ORDERS  OF  ASSEMBLY 

Concerning  the  March  against  the  Rappa'.  Indians. 

AYHEREAS  divers  complaints  have  bin  made  by  J^^0^" 
the   inhabitants  of  the    counties  of  Lancaster,    Nor-  theRappahan- 
thumberland  and  Westmorland  concerning  divers  in-  nock  Indians, 
juries  and  insolencyes  offered  and  done  by'the  Rappa-  ^"Jf™ ^ 
hannock  Indians,  vnto  them  the  said  inhabitants,  and 
have  refused  to  give  satisfaction  though  often  demand- 
ed  by   the  comissioners  of  the  said  couutyes,  which 
gives  just  occasions  of  jealousies  and  fears  of  an  intend- 
ed warr :  It  is  therefore  ordered  by  this  present  Grand  Certain  coun 
Assembly,  that   the  said   countie-  bee  associated  and  armfcequip 
joyned  together  in  and  concerning  the  affaires  of  their  men. 
neighbouring  Indians,  and  that  for  this  present  expedi- 
tion there   be   raised    in  the  comity  of  Lancaster  one  Lancaster  100. 
hundred  men  sufficiently  furnished  with  armes,  amuni- 
tion  and  provisions,  with  boates  and  other  necessaries 
for   their  voyage  to  the    said    Rappahannock  tovvnes. 
likewise  the  county  of  Northumberland  40  meii  quali-  ^^mber' 
lied  as  aforesaid,  Also  in  the  county  of  Westmerland   Westmoreland 
thirty  men  qualified  as  aforesaid,  and  that  the  said  men  30- 
be  raised  and  pressed  in  such  manner  as  the  first  man 
in  commission   in  each   county  with  the  assistance  of 
the  comissioners  of  the  respective  couutyes  direct  and 
think  fitt  for  the  most  easie  accomplishment  of  this  im-  apPojnted  by^ 
ployment,  and  that  the  nomination  of  the  leaders  of  the  county  courts, 
said  men  in  the  counties  of  Northumberland  and  West- 
merland be  att  the  appointment  of  their  several!  courts 
respectively,  all  which  said  men  so  raised  and  pressed 
in  the  said  three  counties   are  hereby  required  to   re- 
paire  on  the  first  Wednesday  in  February  next  to  the 
houseof  ThomsMeades  in  Rappahannock  river  which  P|aceo1  ren 

■  it  -i  c  n  drzvous. 

is  thought  the  most  convenient  place  of  general!  ren- 

dizvouz,  and  from  thence  Ma'r.  John  Carter  who  is 

hereby   appointed  commander  in  cheife  is  hereby  re-  Lom"!rn  ei 

1      '  1        1      •      1  11  *     •     in  cnie' 

quired  and  authorized  to  march  with  a! I  the  aforesaid 

men  to  the  aforesaid  Indian  towne  and  demand  and 

receive  such  satisfaction  as  he  shall  thinke  fitt  for  the  i^VtVwns 

severall  injuries   done   vnto  the   said  inhabitants   not  and  demand 

vsing  any  acts  of  hostility  but  defensive  in  case  of  as-  satisfaction. 

sault,  And  it  is  further  ordered    that  the  said   Major 

John  Carter  give  account  of  his  proceedings  vnto  the  To  report  to 

houo'blethe  Governour  who  is  hereby  authorized  with  t,,.e 8ov;  " ,H' 
..         ,    .  -  ,  .  .,         .  .     J     ..  «iili  iidvice  ot 

the  advice  of  Ins  counn!  to  determine  of  peace  or  wavv  council  h 


390 

to  decide  on 
peace  or  war. 

Interpreters. 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA. 


: 


in  this  and  all  other  emergent  occasions  concerning  the 
said  Indians.  And  it  is  further  ordered,  That  Capt. 
Henry  Fleet  and  David  Wheatliff  attend  the  said  ser- 
vice as  interpreters,  the  charge  of  the  service  aforesaid 
to  born  by  the  three  countyes  above  specified. 

(Hand,  JUS.    Bl  MS.    Jef  JMSL.) 


▲S&l 


T. 


Vreainbie. 


IN'o  bills, 
bonds  or  writ- 
ten engage- 
ments recover- 
able after  three 
years  from 
their  date  un 
less  renewed, 
sued  upon  or 
recorded. 


ACT  I* 

Act  for  renewing  of  Bills  and  Bonds   within   tkrt  e 

years.^ 

WHEREAS  the  nature  of  our  trade  in  Virginia 
in  respect  of  our  present  commodities  and  the  great 
distance  of  our  habitations  inforceth  vs  to  engage- 
ments by  bills,  bonds  and  other  writeings,  vpon  the 
payment  and  discharge  whereof,  either  in  part  or  in 
whole,  the  debtor  is  oftentimes  constrayned  to  accept 
of  receipts,  and  imploy  other  men  therein,  whereby 
many  times  the  bills  and  bonds  doe  lye  out  and  are  not 
taken  vp,  or  delivered  in,  or  the  receipts  lost,  or  the 
parties  and  witnesses  dead,  sue  that  those  debts  are 
againe  demanded  and  recovered  often  times  which  were 
before  justly  paid  and  acquitted,  ffor  remedie  whereof. 
Bee  it  enacted  that  noe  bills,  bonds  or  other  ingage- 
ments  of  writeing  heretofore  made  shall  any  way  be 
pleadable  after  three  years  from  the  end  of  the  sessions 
of  this  present  Grand  Assembly  :  nor  for  the  future 
after  three  years  from  the  date  of  such  bills,  bonds  or 
ingagements  vnles  the  same  be  renewed  or  sued  or  re- 
corded in  the  county  court  where  the  debtor  liveth  or 
where  he  last  resided  (if  he  be  vnknowne  or  non-resi- 
dent) or  absent  out  of  the  county,  or  else  be  sued  or 
recorded  in  the  bookes  of  the  quarter  court  at  James 
Citty. 

(Rand.  MS.     BL  MS.    Jef.  MS.) 

The  acts  of  this  session  are  not  numbered  in  any  of  the  MSS. 
t  The  titles  of  none  of  the  acts  of  this  session  are  given  in  the  BJ. 
MS.  though  the  acts  themselves  agree  with  the  Rand,  and  Jef  MS? 
■tl  which  the  titles  of  the  four  first  nets  arc  inserted 


using  false 
steelyards 


NOV.  1654— 5th  OF  COMMONWEALTH.  3W 

ACT  II. 

Act  concerning  false  Styllyards. 

TO  prevent  the  great  abuse  and  deceit  by  false  styll-  Penalty  foi 
yards  in  this  collony,  It  is  inacted  by  this  Assembly, 
That  whoever  shall  vse  false  styllyards  willingly  shall 
pay  vnto  the  party  greived  three  fold   damages  and 
costs  of  suit,  and  shall  forfeit  one  thousand  pounds  of 
tobacco,  one  halfe  to  the  informer  and  the  other  halfe 
to  the  publique  vse  of  the  county   where  such  offence 
is  comitted,  And  for  the  better  prevention  of  such  de-  weights  to  be 
ceit   it  is   likewise   enacted  that  the  eldest  in  every  kept  at  court 
comission   shall,  att  the  charge  of  the  county,  pro-  hoxxses  f°  tr.v 
cure  and  keep  att  the  court  house  sufficient  weights  to 
try  as  often  as  shall  be  desired  all  styllyards  as  shall 
be  complained  of  or  brought  thither. 

(Rand.  MS.     Bl.  MS.     Jef.  MS.) 


ACT  HI. 

Act  concerning  Imploying  Indians  with  Guns. 

TO  prevent  the  disorderly  imploying  of  Indians  with  No  Person  t0 

gunns  vnder  the  pretence  of  being  their  servants,  It  is  ^m  mthguns 

inacted,  That  noe  person  shall  dare   to   imploy  such  unless  by  li- 

Indian  servants  with  gunns  vnless  they  have  allowance  cense irom  the 

-  .  i  i  i-  /•  i       zin& the  In- 
bordering  Indians   which   humanely    have    bin   only  troducing 
caused  by  these  two  particulars  our  extreame  pressures  among  them 
on  them  and  theire  wanting  of  something  to  hazard  &i  tnc,ueaof 

°  separate  pro- 
perty,  &.c 


-  The  25th  day  of  March  was  the  beginning  of  the  year,  accord-  New  Style, 
ing  to  the  Jewish  computation  ;  and  the  game  rule  was  observed  in  adoption  of. 
England  till  by  stat.  24,  Geo.  2,  chap.  23,  sect.  1,  (1751)  it  was  de- 
clared that  after  the  last  day  of  December,  1751,  the  25th  of  Marco 
should  no  longer  be  accounted  the  beginning  of  the  year,  but  that  the 
Tear  1752  should  begin  on  the  first  day  of  January,  aud  so,  in  each 
succeeding  year,  the  first  day  of  January  should  be  deemed  the  fust 
day  of  the  year.  This  statute  was  rendered  necessary  by  the  adop- 
tion, in  England,  of  the  reformed  calendar  of  Pope  Gregory  XIII 
made  in  the  year  1572;  from  which  period  commenced  the  Grego- 
rian calendar,  or  New  Style.  The  calendar  adjusted  by  Julius  Cje- 
15  years  before  Christ,  was  called  the  Julian  Calendar,  or  Old 
Style,  as  contradistinguished  from  the  new  Most  of  the  nations  of 
Europe  had  adopted  the  Gregorian  Calendar  or  New  Style,  long  be- 
fore the  English  ;  who  being  engaged  in  extensive  commerce,  found 
it  convenient,  for  the  sake  of  foreign  correspondence,  to  preserve 
both  the  Old  and  the  New  Styles,  between  the  1st  of  January  and  the 
25th  of  March,  in  each  year.  Accordingly,  in  most  of  the  dates 
prior  to  1752,  (when  the  New  Style  commenced  in  England,)  we  see 
the  old  year  continued  till  the  25th  of  March,  with  the  new  year  an- 
nexed to  it  from  the  1st  of  January  to  that  date  :  Thus,  January, 
1623-4.  February,  1*531-2  March,  1612:.  hours  each  year  and  consequently  in  lour  years  exceeded  it  by 
one  whole  day,  ordered,  that  to  every  fourth  year  there  should  be 
one  day  added,  and  so  make  it  consist  of  366  days,  by  which  means 
the  civil  and  solar  years  were  reduced  pretty  near  to  an  equality. 
This  additional  day  was  put  in  the  month  of  February,  and  because 
in  the  common  year  «hc  twenty-fourth  day  of  February  was  called 
by  the  Romans  the  sixth  of  the  Kalends  of  March,  he  ordered  that 
this  day  should  be  added  after  the  twenty-fourth  day  of  February, 
and  called  by  the  same  name  ;  there  happening  every  fourth  year, 
two  sixths  of  the  Kalends  of  March,  and  hence  that  year  was  call- 
ed Bissextile  or  Leap  Year.  This  way  was  used  by  us  till  the  year 
1752,  when  the  New  Style  commenced." 

"  But  the  true  length  of  the  year  being  365  days,  5  hours  aud 
49  minutes,  and  by  the  Julian  account  365  days  and  6  hours,  'tis 
plain  the  civil  year  exceeds  the  solar  by  1 1  minutes  nearly.  Con- 
sequently, if  the  sun  any  year  enters  the  equinoctial  on  the  20th 
day  of  March  at  noon,  the  next  year  he  will  enter  the  equinoctial 
the  same  day  11  minutes  before  noon,  the  next  22  minutes  before 
noon,  and  so  on.  Consequently  in  131  years  the  solar  will  antici- 
pate the  civil  year  by  one  whole  day  ;  and  so  either  equinox  will  not. 
happen  always  on  the  same  day  of  the  civil  year,  but  be  carried  in 
a  retrograde  order  through  all  the  days  of  it.  This  was  what  put 
Pope  Gregory  XIII.  upon  reforming  the  Julian  kalendar — for,  find- 
ing that  at  the  time  of  the  Nicene  council,  when  the  time  of  cele- 
brating Easter  was  instituted,  the  vernal  equinox  happened  the 
21st  day  of  March,  and  by  flowing  continually  backwards,  it  hap- 
pened at  his  time  ('in  the  year  1572)  on  the  11th  day  of  March, 
anticipating  its  former  time  by  10  whole  days,  he  ordered  that 
these  ten  days  should  be  taken  out  of  the  kalendar,  and  the  11th  of 
.March  should  be  reckoned  the  21st — and  to  prevent  the  seasons 
of  the  year  from  going  any  more  backwards,  as  they  were  before, 
he  ordered  that  every  hundredth  year  of  the  Christian  a;ra  (which 
according  to  the  Julian  kalendar  is  Bissextile)  should  be  a  common 
year  and  so  consist  only  of  365  days — but  this  being  too  much, 
every  four  hundredth  year  was  to  remain  Bissextile  or  heap  Year. — 
But  since  his  time  to  the  year  1752,  one  day  more  has  been  antici 
pated.  which  was  the  reason  that  11  days  were  ordered  to  be  taken 
out  of  the  kalendar  in  the  month  of  September,  1752,  when  the 
New  Style  commenced  in  these  kingdom-;.  The  Julian  form  is  call 
ed  Old  Style  and  the  Gregorian,  New  Style.' 

r  In  the  Thtrid.  MS.  all  the  acts  of  this  session    exrcau),,|, 
comon  enemie  the  Indians,  if  opportunity  serve, 
would  suddenly  invade  this  collony  to  a  totall  subver- 
sion of  the  same,  and  whereas  the  onlv  means  for  the 
discovery  of  their  plotts  is  by  allarms,  of  which  no  cer- 
tainty can  be  had  in  respect  of  the  frequent  shooting 
of  gunns  in  drinking,  whereby  they  proclaim,  and  as 
it  were,  justifie  that  beastly  vice  spending  much  pow- 
der in  vaioe,  that  might  be  reserved  against  the  comon 
enemie,  Be  it  therefore  enacted  that  what  person  or  Nogou»t• 

ceo  for  damaires  the  said  Kyggan  snsteined  in  tho  ereei 


4(H) 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA. 


Writing  de- 
livered up  to 
be  cancelled. 


house,  orchard  and  the  ffence  belonging  to  the  come 
ffeild,  and  that  each  partye  since  the  said  jury  bear 
their  own  charges,  And  that  Norwood  deliver  vp  Kyg- 
gan's  bill,  it  appearing  alreadie  satisfied,  and  make  a 
firme  conveyance  of  the  land  bought  of  him  byKyggan 
to  his  heires  and  assigns  for  ever. 


Com'wealth 
vs    Swann. 
Homicide 
per  misadven- 
ture. 


Pardon  grant- 
ed by  the  as- 
sembly, there 
being  no  chan- 
cellor or  pub- 
lic seal  in  the 
colonv 


WHEREAS  Leift.  Coll.  Tho.  Swann  at  a  sessions 
holden  by  commission  from  the  Governour  the  second 
day  of  July  last,  in  Surry  County,  accused  &c  -im- 
peached for  the  death  of  his  servant  one  Elizabeth 
Buck,  The  fact  found  by  the  jury  homicide  per  misad- 
venture whereby  he  is  by  law  of  England  to  sue  out  his 
pardon  of  course  vnder  the  broad  seale  from  the  chan- 
cellor, ffor  obteyning  of  which  he  hath  now  humbly 
addressed  himselfe  to  the  Governour  and  Councill — 
Vpon  consideration  thereof  had 

Whereas  this  collony  is  not  as  yet  settled  with  such 
officers  as  belong  to  passing  such  pardons  and  noe  pub- 
lick  seale  being  in  the  countrey,The  Governour,  Coun- 
cill and  Burgesses  of  this  present  Grand  Assembly 
conceive  it  sufficient  to  declare,  That  the  said  Thomas 
Swan  be  discharged  from  further  trouble,  and  be  re- 
stored to  the  like  condition  he  was  in  before  the  said 
homicide  per  misadventure  comitted  by  him,  and  that 
he  may  safely  acquiesse  herein  as  if  his  pardon  had  bin 
sued  out  formally.  And  as  concerning  his  goods  and 
chatties  to  be  forfeited  thereby,  they  likewise  conceive 
and  declare  that  the  rigor  and  forfeiture  hereof  shall 
not  be  taken,  and  that  he  shall  be  acquitted  for  the 
same. 

BY  THE  ASSEMBLY : 

The  Assembly  desire  to  be  informed  whether  legall 
proceedings  were  had  in  the  tryall  of  Left.  Coll.  Tho. 
Swan  by  those  judges  appointed  by  the  Governour's 
comission. 


ed. 


The  legality  being  averred  it  is  ordered  to  be  record- 
CHARLES  NORWOOD.  Clk.  Assent. 


MARCH,  1654-5— 6th  OF  COMMONWEALTH. 


407 


ORDERED  that  this  Assembly  be  adjourned  till  Adjournment 
the  I  Oth  day  of  March  next,  1656,  And  in  case  any  of  assembl>- 
of  the   present   Burgesses   are  now  elected   sherriffs 
the  inhabitants  of  such  countyes  are  to  proceed  to  new 
elections. 


ATT  A 


$ffiffi®ft^ 


held  at  James  Cittie. 


KNOW  all  men  by  these  presents,  That  I  Sr.  Wil-  ^wm^m 
liam   Berkeley,  Knt.  doe  by  these  presents  in  consi-  Berkeley  to 
deration  of  the    quantity  of  seaven  and  twenty  thou-  RicIVd  B«n- 
sand  five  hundred  pounds  of  tobacco  to  me  in  hand  paid  ^us°  a*  JaH 
the  receipt  whereof  I  hereby  acknowledge  and  divers  City, 
good  causes  and  considerations  me  therevnto  moove- 
ing  give  and  grant,  bargaine  and  sell  vnto  RichardBen- 
nett,  Esq.  Governour  of  Virginia  and  to  his  heires 
and  assignes  for  ever  all  my  right,  title  and  interest 
that  I  have  or  may  have  in  my  house  in  James  Cittie, 
lately  in  the  tenure  of  William  Whittby  being  the  wes- 
termost  of  the  three  brickhouses  which  I  there  built : 
To  have  and  to  hold  the  said  third  brickhouse  with  the 
appurtenances  and  land  therevnto  belonging  to  the  said 
Richard  Bennett,  his  heires  and  assignes  for  ever. — 
And  I  the  said  Sr.  William  Berkeley  further  agree  &: 
promise  to  make  any  further  assurance  in  law  vpon 
reasonable  demand  as  by  counsell  learned  in  thelawes 
shall  be  thought  fitt,  In  wittness  whereof  I  have  here- 
vnto  sett  my  hand  and  seale  the  thirtieth  day  of  March, 
one  thousand  six  hundred  ffifty  five. 

WILLIAM  BERKELEY: 

The  Scale. 
Signed,  scaled  and  delivered  in  the 
presence  of  vs, 

WILLIAM  CLAYBORNE 

THO.  BR.ERETON. 

STEPHEN  GRAY. 

THOMAS  ELLIS. 

Wm.  WATERS. 

The  30th  of  March,  1655.  ^ 


408 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


Livery  of  sei- 
zin. 


LIVERY  and  seizin  was  the  day  and  yeare  above- 
written  given  and  delivered  to  the  said  Richard  Ben- 
nett, Esq.  by  the  within  named  Sr.  William  Berkeley. 
Knt.  of  the  House  within  named,  In  the  presence  ot 
vs,  William  Clayborne,  William  Waters,  Thomas 
Brereton,  Stephen  Gray,  Thomas  Ellis. 

CHA:  NORWOOD,  Clk.  Assem. 


ATT  A 
held  att  James  Citty,  March  31,  1665, 


s» '  B: 


Clerks  to 
give  receipts 
for  papers 
received  by 
them. 


Ordered  the  Governour  and  Councill  be  as  followeth  :* 

EDWARD  DIGGS,  Esq.  Governour. 

Coll.  Wm.  CLAYBORNE,  Secretary  and  next  in 

Council. 


Capt.  John  West, 
Coll.  Sam    Mathewes, 
Coll.  Argoll  Yardly, 
Coll.  Thomas  Pettus, 
Coll.  Humphrey  Higgison, 
Coll.  George  Ludlow, 
Coll.  WilPm.  Bernard, 


Coll.  Bridges  fireeman, 
Coll.  Edward  Hill, 
Coll.  Wm.  Taylor, 
Coll.  Tho.  Dew, 
L't.Coll.Obed  Robins- 
Leift.  Coll.  Mathews, 
Capt.  Henry  Perry, 


Capt.  Wm.  Gooch. 

ORDERED  that  the  clerke  or  clerkes  of  the  coun- 
ty court  in  James  Cittie,  and  all  other  courts  within 
tins  collony  shall  give  a  receipt  of  what  draughts  or 
writings  they  shall  receive  of  any  person  or  persons 
whatsoever. 

*  This  is  the  second  election  of  Governour  and  Council,  which 
appears  to  thave  been  made;  since  the  existence  of  the  common- 
wealth. Richard  Bennett  was  elected  the  first  Governour,  on  the 
30th  of  April,  1652,  (see  ante  pa  371)  and  held  that  office  till  U °   i  c      i  i    c  j  power  iVUntv 

And  if  they  find  any  notorious  defect  to  remove  the  or-  .^  ,,(  „  ,.u..  ■ 

plians  to  oilier  guardians,  As  also  for  those  that  are  dians. orphan 

bound  apprentices  to  chance  their  master  if  he  vse  them  a1"1  "PP"  ati 
rigourously  or  neglect  to  teach  them  his  trade. 

That  such  orphans  as  are  not  bound  apprentices  shall  pi"**1*8  no' 

r  II  -•   i     •       bound appren- 

attcr  seaventeen  yeares  ol  age  have  the  produce  of  their  tkestojiave 

owne  labours  and  industry  and  to  dispose  of  as  they  product  of 

list,  besides    the    maintenance    from    their  guardians,  JJjJJ  ^fter  li 

Allwaies  provided  that  nothing  be  infringed.  years  of  age, 

That  no  more  be  allowed  to  guardians  for  collecting   Commissions 
of  debts  (\ue  to  the  estate  then  what  is  allowed  vsuallv   guardians 
by  merchants  to  their  (factors  or  attorneys,  or  rather 
that  so    much    in   the  hundred  be  appointed  as  shall 
seem  reasonable  to  the  court?. 

That  thirty  pounds  of  tobacco  per  day  and  no  more   Allowance  to 

bn  i*i  •  c      A  •  .     i*     li    appraisers  oi 

e  d lowed  to  each  apprizer  lor  the  appmement  ol  all   (^t;,.,., 

estates  if  they  will  take  it. 

That  there  be  a  regulation  of  excessive  fluneral  char-  funeral 

.     ,°  ...  ,    charges  not  to 

ges  by  the  comissioners  where  nothing  is  mentioned   be  excessive. 

concerning  them  in  the  decedents  will. 


ACT  in. 

BE  it  enacted  from  henceforth  that  all  money  debts  ,  Allmonej 

i-i  i  i     ii   i         i        i    i  i  i  i  debts  recover 

tnadein  the  colony  shall  be  pleadable  except  only  such  ahlc  except 

as  were  madein  time  of  a  former  prohibition  of  money  thosecontract- 

debts   being  pleadable  (vizt.)    from  the   26th  day  of  jjjjjj^g 

March  A'o.  1643,  to  the  tenth  of  October,  A'o.  1649.  duringafor-' 

As  also  all  money  debts  which  are  or  shall  be  made  in  merprobibi 

England  for  goods  imported  into  this  collony  but  not  "on- 
otherwise 


ACT  IV. 

.Igatnst  Fraudulent  Deeds* 

WHEREAS  by    the    15th    act    in    March,    1642,   Noestateia 

and   also  by  the  15th  of  the   30th  of  Aprill,    1G52,   la"  :,s  !°°* 
J  r  '    ■"'  chattel 

*  Act  IV  is  the  first  act  of  this  session  inserted  in  the  J  requir- 
ed, is  provision  of  Mullberry  trees,  Be  it  enacted  and 
confirmed  by  this  present  Grand  Assembly,  that  eveiie 
proprietor  of  land  within  the  colLony  of  Virginia  shall 
for  everie  one  hundred  acres  of  land  holden  in  flee, 
plant  vpon  the  said  land  tenn  rnullberry  trees,  at  twelve 
foote  distance  each  from  other,  and  secure  them  by 
weeding,  and  a  sufficient  ffence,  from  cattell,  horses, 
he.  between  this  and  the  last  of  December.  1G.58,  and 
for  everie  tree  that  shall  be  wanting,  or  vntended  in 
manner  aforesaid  >'.f  the  said  proportion  at  the  said 
last  of  December,  165S,  he  the  said  proprietor  that 
shall  be  soe  delinquent  shall  pay  tenne  pounds  of  to- 
bacco, one  halfe  to  the  informer,  the  other  halfe  to  the 
countie  v\  here  the  delinquent  livelh,  Provided  that  this 
act  do  not  extend  vnto  orphans,  vntil  the  expiration  of 
two  yearcs  after  their  full  age,  and  then  if  delinquent 
to  be  liable  as  aforesaid,  And  no  person  in  planting 
more  then  his  number, shall  excuse  any  that  hath  plant- 
ed less,  Provided  allwaies  that  this  act  extend  not  to 
such  proprietors  as  are  not  in  actual!  possession. 

(Hand.  MS.     Jef.  MS.\ 


Person  taking 
up  estrays  of 
horses  or  cat- 
tle,  or  lost 
bouts  to  pre- 
sent a  particu 
lar  descrip- 
tion within 
one  month 
id  the  clerk 
•  f  the  court. 


ACT  IX. 

Concerning  Stray  Horses  and  Cattell. 

FOR  rcmedie  of  the  great  abuse  and  wrong  done 
in  takeing  vp  stray  horses,  cattell  and  lost  boats  not 
onely  in  concealing  of  them,  but  in  vseinge  and  em- 
ploying of  them;  to  the  hurt  and  damage  of  the  owners, 
Be  it  enacted  by  this  present  Grand  Assembly,  that  eve- 
rie person  or  persons  that  shall  take  vpp  or  keepe  any 
stray  horses, cattell  or  boates,  shall  within  one  moneth 
after  the  takeing  vp,  such  stray  horses,  cattell  or  boates 
present  a  pellicular  declaration  in  writeinge  vnder  their 
hands  totheclerke  of  that  county  where  the  said  boate, 
horses  and  cattell  is  taken  vp,  of  the  marks,  stature. 


DEC.  1656— 7th  OF  COMMONWEALTH.  4si\ 

colour  of  the  horse  and  cattcll,  and  proportion  of  the  Rcn,rns  t0  l,f 
boat,  with  what  is  found  in   her,  and  that  the  clarke  is 
to  record  the  same,  and  to  make  returne  of  all  such  re- 
cords to   the  next  quarter  court,  which  said  returnes  Penalty  for  not 
are  to  be  recorded  in    the  secretaries  office;  and   for  such  desCTip 
every  person  not  presenting  as  aforesaid  shall  pay  two  tion.&dn 
thousand  pounds  of  tobacco,  one  halfe  to  the  informer  cle,ks  for  not 

■  ii  i  !•    i  /•    i  i  ii  recording. 

the  other  tothepublick  vse  of  the  county,  and  pay  all 
reasonable  costs  and  damages  to  the  party  greived,  all 

clarkes   makeing  default   herein   shall    be  greivously  lhisact  "ouo 

o  o  «/  prevent  the  lo- 

amerced  by  the  Goveruour  and  Councill.     Neverthe-  Saipr<>secu- 

iess  this  act  shall  not  be  interpreted  to  hinder  the  legall  |io"  of  those 

c                                                      .1           l     ii  c  ii  who  irlonious- 
prOSeCUtlOVI  ot  any  person  or  persons  that  shall  telloni-  iv  take  or  steal 

ausiy  take  or  steale  any  horses,  cattell  or  boats  in  this  auy  horses, 

collonie.  (Rand.  MS.  cahte  or  boats. 


ACT  X. 

WHEREAS  bv  a  former  act  of  Assembly  priviledge  Coun*iesto 

.    .  .  t>  pavtheexpen- 

was  granted  to  any  parish  to  send  one  or  two  rJurges-  ses  of  their 

ses,  and  severall  disputations  ariseing  therevpon,  how  burgesses;  but 

the  charges  of  the  said  parochial!  Burgesses  should  be  gu^u", 

defrayed,  It  is   ordered    that  everie  county   shall    pay  foranyparti- 

the  Burgesses  usually  sent  from  the  respective  conn-  cu,ar purpose,- 

i  i"-/.  'lin  T"»  such  parish   tit- 

ties as  formerly,  and  it  any  parish  shall  return  a  bur-  t[ie  ex, 

gesse  for  their  perticuiar  occasion,  then  the  charge  of  pense. 

the  said    Burgesse   to  be  levied  in  and   by  the  parish 

that  elected  him. 

(Rand.  MS.     Bl.  MS.     Jef.  MS.) 


Committee  appointed  for  Reveiiv  of  the  Acts*  Committees 

appointed. 


Capt.  Francis  Willis,  Chairman. 

For  a  revisa- 

Leift.  Coll.  Abraham  Wood,  of  ,1,e  laws 

(  oil.  Geo  :  Reade, 
Mr.  John  Wilcox. 


*  At  tliis  session  a  revisa!  of  all  the  laws  was  directed.  They 
were  accordingly  digested  into  one  volume,  and  passed  at  anas, 
lombly  held  in  March  1657-8-rThe  revisa!  i-.  ma  i    ..f  which  are  well  adapted  to  the  existing  Btate  ■  >)  the 

'Oimtrv 


422 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA. 


For  private 
causes. 


Members  of 
council  ap- 
pointed by  the 
gov.  and  coun- 
cil, during  the 
recess  of  the 
Assembly. 

Their  ap- 
pointment 
confirmed. 


For  Private   Causes. 

Major  Holt,   Chairman. 

Mr.  Peter  Ashton,  Mr.  A  nth.  Wvatt. 

Capt.  Ko  :  Ellison,  Capt.  Moore  ffantlero} . 

Capt.  Ralph  Langley,        Capt.  Win.  Harris, 

Capt.  Win.  Whittaker. 

Whereas  the  Governour  and  Couneill  in  respect  of 
some  emergent  necessitie  had  made  choice  of  Lei  ft. 
Coll.  Walker  and  Mr.  Nathaniel  Bacon  to  be  added 
to  the  Couneill  during  the  intervall  of  the  Assem- 
bly, this  Assembly  takeing  the  reasons  into  conside- 
ration confirme  their  election  and  accordingly  have 
consented. 

(Rand.  MS.     Bl.  MS.) 


Voyage  of  dis-       VPON  the  petition  of  Coll.  Thomas  Dew  to  be  im- 
coveryof  the     p0vverefj  to  make  a  disco verie  of  the  navigable  rivers 

navigable  vi-      '        .  .  .  .  „  TT  j  v, 

vers  between     to  the  southward  between  (.ape  Hatterras   and  Lape 

Ca^eHatteras  Feare   with    such   gentlemen  and  planters    as   would 

p"d      P!L        voluntarily  and  att  their  owne  charge  accompanie  him, 

feed. '  It  is  ordered  that  the  said  Coll.  Thomas  Dew  be  hereby 

authorized  and  impou  ered  to  make  the  said  discoverie. 

Provided  it  be  done  at  the  proper  charge  of  the  vnder- 

takers,  and  not  at  the  cost  of  the  publique,  and  in  tffe 

absence  or   in  case  of  the  mortality  of  Coll.  Thomae 

Dew,  Capt.  Thomas  Francis  is  hereby  invested  with 

the  like  power. 

(Rand.  MS.     Bl.  MS.) 


Sentence  priV 
nounced  on 
Coll.  Edward 
Hill  in  relation 
to  the  Richa- 
Viccrians. 


DEBATE  and  consideration  of  the  charge  and  de- 
fence of  Coll.  Edward  Hill  by  the  general  and  unani- 
mous assent  and  vote  of  both  houses  without  any  con- 
tradiction hath  been  found  guilty  of  those  crimes  and 
weaknesses  there  aileaged  against  him  and  for  the  vin- 
dicating themselves  from  any  imputation  of  his  crimes 
and  deficiencies  have  ordered  that  his  present  suspen- 
sion from  all  offices  military  and  civil  that  he  hath  had 
or  may  have  continue  &  be  made  uncapable  of  resti- 
tution but  by  an  Assembly,  and  that  he  be  at  the  charge 
of  whats  alreadie  expended  in  procuring  a  peace  with 
the  Richahecriaus  and  if  the   Governour  or  Councel 


DEC.  1656— 7th  OF  COMMONWEALTH.  423 

shall  find  any  nearer  way  to  effecting  thereof  that  it 
shall  be  acted  at  the  said  Coll.  Hills  proper  cost  and 
charge.  (BL  MS.) 


WHEREAS  a  petition  was  presented  to  the  hon'ble  Tart  of  the 
Assembly  by  the  Burgesses  of  the  Isle  of  Wight  coun-  JJ^jSkfoJ,*' 
tie  in   behalfe  of  the  inhabitants  of  Terrascoe  neck  added  to  isle 
and  the  Ragged   Islands  subscribed  by  divers  of  the  of  Wight 
said  inhabitants  expressing  their  desires  to  be  taken  out 
of  the  county  of  Vpper  Norfolke  and  adjoyned  to  the 
countie  of  the  Isle  of  Wight  for  their  greater  convenien- 
cy,  It  is  ordered  that  the  Governour  be  desired  to  no- 
minate   a  councellor  who  is  to  appoint  a  precize  time 
and  place  for  the  comiss'rs.  of  each  countye  to  meet 
him,  and  in  case  the   said  com'rs.  cannot  agree  about  Ho  v  to  bp 
fixing  the  bounds  of  each  county,  Then  the  said  coun-  laid  off. 
eel  lor  as  an  vmpire  to  putt  a   period  to  their  differ- 
ences and  the  bounds  by  him  or  them  then  sett  for  the 
several  counties  to  remaine  for  the  future  vnalterable, 
It  being  the  opinion  of  the  house  that  naturall  bounds 
will  be  fittest  for  that  purpose. 

(Rand.  MS.     BL  MS.     Jef.  MS.) 


IT  is  ordered  by  this  Grand  Assembly  that  there  be  Pay  of  gov  &, 
levied  by  the  pub:  annually  the  sume  of  twenty  th.u-  COa'>c,ld»»>I- 
the  Governour  which  from  time  to  time  shall  succeed 
in  the  government  of  this  countrey  towards  his  main-  per(,„isitcs 
tenancein  the  said  place,  which  is  to  be  yearly  levied 
out  of  the   publique,    And  also  that  the  dutys  which   Castle  dutiei 
shipps  were    formerly  vsed  to  pay  to  the  Capt.  of  the  ,mi'1  at  ,he 
Castell  be  from  henceforth  paid  to  the  Governour  of 
this  country,  to  he  by  them  converted  to  their  mainte-  . 

nance  in  the  government  as  aforesaid,  And  thatlycen-  Ucc^ef 
ses  for  marriages  and  all  other  priviledgefl  and  comodi- 
ties  enjoyed  by  the  precedent  Governours,  be  confirm- 


424 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


ed  to  the  present  Governour  with  reservation  of  the 
castle  duties  to  Coll.  Clayborneof  what  shipps  are  al- 
readie  entered  or  shall  enter  before  the  expiration  of 
this  present  thirteenth  day  of  December. 

(Rand*  MS.     Bl.  MS.     Jef.  MS.) 


Ministers  and 

 

hy  Thomas  Jefferson,  Esq.  from  whom  it  was  bor-  br^y  °aftCon' 

rowed,  by  Edmund  Randolph,  Esq.]  Washington 


Major  JOHN  SMITH,  Speaker. 


The  Burgesses  elected  and  returned  by  the  sherrifis 
for  the  severall  plantations  to  sitt  and  act  in  this 
present  Grand  Assembly  were  as  followeth : 

For  Henrico  County.         For  Charles  Cittie  County. 

Major  Wm.  Harris.  Mr.  War'm  Horsmenden, 

Capt.  Robert  Wynne. 


Mr.  Btnk.  in    his   History  of  Virginia,  vol.  2,    pa.    118,    sayS 
that  of  the  transactions  from  the  period  of  which  he   was  speaking 
(1656)  to  the  restoration  (166U)  t  this  session,  for  settling  the   church    government, 
instead  of  enjoining    obedience  to  the   doctrines    and  discipline  of 
thechorcli  ol  England,  as  had  been  invariably  the  case  in  all  former 
upon  this  subject,  no  «uch  injunction   appears     *~*n  'b^  rrvn 


4&J  LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 

'For  James  Citty  County,    tapper  Norfolke\  County, 

Mr.  Hen.  Soane,  Leift.  Coll.  Edw'd  Carter, 

Major  Richard  Webster,    Mr.  Thomas  ffrancis, 
Mr.  Thomas  Loveinge,       Mr.  Giles  Webb. 
Mr.  William  Corker, 

Lower  Norfolke  County, 
Surry  County.  ^   J(>hn  g.^ 

Lev't.  Coll.  Thos.  Swann,  Major  LemueH  Masonn. 

Mr.  William  Edwards, 

Major  Win,  Butier,  Elizabeth  Cittie  Countie. 

Capt.  Wra,  Cawfeild,         ,«  .      wu* 
r  Major  William, 

Mr.  John  Powell. 


trary,  all   matters  relating  to  the   church,  the  ministers  and  other 
parochial  affairs,  are  left  at  the  entire  discretion  of  the  people. 

During  this  period  a  severe  conflict  arose  between  the  two  branches 
of  the  eovernment,  as  to  the  constitutional  power  of  the  governor 
and  council  to  dissolve  the  assembly.  A  dissolution  of  the  house  of 
burgesses  was  ordered  by  the  governor  and  council  ;  but  they  pc- 
l'emptorily  refused  to  be  dissolved,  and  passed  a  resolution  de- 
claring that  any  member  who  should  depart  from  his  post,  should 
be  "  censured  as  a  person  betraying  the  trust  reposed  in  him  by  his 
country."  Several  other  resolutions  equally  display  the  republican 
sentiments  of  the  assembly  ;  and  the  firmness  of  its  members.  They 
took  an  oath  of  secrecy  ;  passed  an  order  directed  to  the  high 
sheriff  of  James  City  county,  commanding  him  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  Protector,  to  obey  no  warrant  or  precept  directed  to  him 
from  any  power,  except  the  speaker  of  the  house  of  burgesses,  and 
finally  declared  "  that  they  had  in  themselves  the  full  power  of  the 
election  and  appointment  of  all  officers  in  this  country,  until  such 
time  as  they  should  have  order  to  the  contrary,  from  the  supreme 
power  in  England  ;"  and  that  they  were  "  not  dissolvable  by  any 
power  yet  extant  in  Virginia,  but  their  own."  The  house  of  bur- 
gesses had  a  complete  triumph.  They  declared  all  former  elections 
of  governor  and  council  null  and  void ;  re-elected  coll.  Samuel 
Mathewes,  by  whom,  with  his  council,  an  attempt  had  been  made  to 
dissolve  them  ;  and  prescribed  the  mode  of  electing  the  governor 
and  council  in  future. 

t  In  Mareh,  1645-6,  (See  ante  pa.  321)  the  name  of  "  Upper  Nor- 
folk" was  changed  to  "  Nansimum  ;"  since  which  time  the  county 
of  Nansimum  and  not  Upper  Norfolk  appears  to  have  been  regular- 
ly represented  in  the  grand  assembly.  In  this  and  several  of  the 
succeeding  assemblies  Upper  Norfolk  has  resumed  its  name  and 
Nansimum  disappear* 


MARCH,  1657-8— Sth  OF  COMMONWEALTH. 


4J1 


New  Kent  County. 

William  Blacky. 

Gloster  County. 


Warwick  County. 

John  Smith  *Sp'ker, 
Thomas  Davis. 

Yorke  County e. 


Leift.  Coll.  Anth.  Elliott, 

Capt.  Thomas  Ramsey. 

Mr.  Jeremy  Hain, 

Rappahannock   Countie.  Mr.  Robert  Borne. 


Mr.  Thomas  Lucar. 

Lancaster  County. 

Coll.  John  Carter, 
Mr.  Peter  Montague. 

Isle  of  Wight  County. 


Northumberland  Countie* 

Mr.  Peter  Knight, 
Mr.  John  Haney. 

Northampton  Countie. 


Mr.  William  Kendall, 
Mr.  William  Mellinge, 
Capt.  William  Michell, 
Mr.  Randall  Revell, 
Mr.  John  Willcox. 


Major  John  Bond, 
Mr.  Thomas  Tabenor, 
Mr.  John  Brewer, 
Mr.  Joseph  Bridger. 

WHEREAS  it  appeares  by  act  of  Assembly  held  Recital  of  the 
at  James  Cittie  in  May,  1652,  That  it  was  agreed  vp-  provisional 
on  and  thought  best  by  the  then  comissioners  for  the  ?overnment- 
parliament,  and   the  Burgesses  of  the  then  assembly, 
That  the  right  of  election  of  all  officers  of  this  collony 
should  be  and  appertaine  to  the  Burgesses,  the  repre- 
sentatitives  of  the  people,  Now  know  yee,  That  wee  the 
present  Burgesses  of  this  Grand  Assembly  have  ac- 
cordingly constituted  and  ordained  the  severall  persons 
vnder  written  to  be  the  Governour,f  Councill  &t  comis- 
sioners of  this  country  of  Virginia  vntil  the  next  As- 
sembly or  vntilll  the  further  pleasure  of  the  supreame 
power  in  England  shall  be  knowne. 


Cart  of  the  manuscript  having  been  torn  ofl'  the  title  of  these 
members  is  obliterated  ;  and  by  the  same  accident  some  words  of 
the  last  act  in  the  preceding  session  are  necessarily  omitted. 

t  This  was  th8  :)  and  SarnueJ  Matt!"  •  ■     this  13th  of  March, 

1657-8 


433  LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA. 

The  Honourable  SAMUEL  MATTHEWES,  Esq'r, 

Governour  and  Captain  General!  of  Virginia. 

RICHARD  BENNETT,  Esquire. 

Coll.  Wm.  CLAIBORNE,  Secretarie  of  State. 

Coll.  John  West,  Lev't.  Coll.  John 

Coll.  Thomas  Pettus,  Coll.  George 

Coll.  William.  Bernard,  Coll.  Abraham  Wood. 

Coll.  Thomas  Dew,  Coll.  John  Carter, 

Coll.  Obedience  Robins,  Mr.  Warm.  Horsmenden, 

Capt.  Henry  Perrie,  Lt.  Coll.  Anthony  Elliotte. 

Theise  three  last  not  to  be  sworne  vntill  the  de'solu- 
tion  of  the  Assembly. 


The  preamble  to  the  Acts  of  Assembly  made  by  a  Grand 
Assembly  holden  at  James  Cittie,  March  the  13th. 
1657-8. 

JJ5SM5  WHEREAS  the  acts  of  Assembly  of  this  country 

through  multiplicitie  of  alterations  and  repeales  are  be- 
come so  difficult,  that  the  course  of  justice  is  thereby 
obstructed  and  those  that  are  by  the  lawes  intrusted 
with  power  to  execute  them,  may  by  such  their  vncer- 
tainety  be  drawne  to  comit  vnwilled  errors,  This 
Grand  Assembly  takeing  the  same  into  their  serious 
consideration  have  accordinge  to  the  duty  they  owe  to 
God,  and  the  trust  reposed  in  them  by  the  countrey, 
endeavoured  the  remedie  of  the  like  inconveniencies 
by  makeing  a  dilligent  review  of  all  the  acts  formerly 
in  force,  and  have  by  theise  presents  enacted,  That  all 
acts  be  reduced  into  one  body  and  after  enterie  thereof 
vpon  the  records,  severall  coppies  sent  into  the  severall 
counties  respectively,  And  that  those  only  here  men- 
tioned and  expessed  be  esteemed  and  bee  the  lawes 
only  in  force,  for  all  officers  to  proceed  by  in  their  judg- 
ments severally  or  in  the  courts  of  judicature,  willing 
also  and  requireing  all  people  to  take  notice  hereof  and 
accordingly  to  yield  their  due  obedience  therevnto. 


MARCH    i6.i7-8— 9th  OF  COMMONWEALTH,  433 

ACT  I. 

Church  Goverment  Settled. 

BEE  it  enacted  by  this  present  Grand  Assembly  con-  Of  the  wsrr) 
ceminsr  Church  goverment  as  followeth,  that  all  mutters  m,ms,ers' 

0  •  ••     9  .     .  •  i       .     .       chmch-war- 

concerning  the  vestrey,  their  agreements  with  their  dens,  poor  and 
ministers,  touching  the  church- wardens,  the  poore  and  parochial  mat- 
other  things  concerninge  the  parishes  or  parishoners  S™i*t^°" 

r     ,  /•  i  i     •  i     •  .    r,,p  nave  the 

respectively  be  referred  to  their  owne  ordering  and  disposal 

disposeing  from  time  to  time  as  they  shall  think  fitt, 

That  register  bookes  be  kept  by  their  appointments 

of  all  christenings,  burialls  and  marriages  and  the  mi-  R    . 

nisters  only  shall  celebrate  marriages  and  not  without  births,  mar- 

lycense  as  formerly  or  theire  publication  of  banes  vp-  riase*  ami 

pon  three  severall  daves  shall  be  fined  tenne  thousand  ('*a,h.s- 

i        /•       i  ii  f     i  Marriages, 

pounds  ot  tobacco  to  ease  the  leavye  of  that  comity  :   howcelebra 
No  lycense  to  be  granted  without  certificate  vnder  the  t("(l- 
hands  of  the  parents,  masters  or  guardians  of  the  par- 
ties to  be  married 


ACT  II. 

Against  Drvnkennes,  cy-c. 

THAT  all  good   meanes  be  vsed  in  the  severall  Persons  guilty 
tounlie  courts  and  parishes  respectively  for  the  sup-  of  drunken- 

~     .  i-  •  r    i         i  ii         i  ness,  blasphe- 

pressing  ot  the  odious  smnes  ot  drunkenesse,  blasphe-  ,noui  cursing 
rious  swearing  and  curseing,  scandalous  liveing  in  and  swearing, 
adultery  and  fornication,  And  that  all  such  person  &  *d^Zl, am- 

J     n       ,  ,  |.  .  r  fornication,  in- 

persons  of  what  degree  or  quahtie  soever  be  seveerly  capable  of  be- 
punished  and  erennerally  to  be  held  incapable  of  being;  inS  a  w'tncss 

,  •  J        ,  ..  a     cu        '  or  of  holding 

a  wittnes  between  partie  and  partie,  and  ot  bearing  any  blic  6 

publique  office  in  the  goverment  of  this  collony  ;  Hee  office. 
that  shall  be  three  times  convicted  in  open  court  of  ei- 
ther of  the  said  offences  shall  be  accounted  a  common 
drunkard,  swearer,  &c.  the  first  offence  of  drunkeness   „a'jCt""siary  ra" 
to  be  fiftie  pounds  of  tobacco,  the  first  olTence  of  swear- 
ing to  be  twelve  pounds  of  tobacco,  and  for  servants  &  Servants  and 
people  vnder  age  to  be  referred  to  the  magistrates  or  minors  how 
corn'rs.  in  the  county  courts  to  give  them  correction  in  ""mshed 
case  the  parents  or  masters  refuse  to  pay  the  fine,  The 
second  offence  theise  mulkts  and  punishments  to  b»' 
doubled. 

3  G 


434 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


No  journey  to 
be  performed 
on  the  Lord's 
day,  nor  goods 
laden, norguns 
fired. 


Penalty. 
Sdvants  and 
others  to  at- 
tend church. 


ACT  III. 

The  Sabbolh  to  bee  kept  holy. 

THAT  the  Lord's  day  be  kept  holy,  and  that  no 
journeys  be  made  except  in  case  of  emergent  necessi- 
tie  on  that  day,  that  no  goods  bee  laden  in  boates  nor 
shooteing  in  gunns  or  the  like  tending  to  the  propha- 
nation  of  that  day,  which  duty  is  to  be  taken  care  of 
by  the  ministers  and  officers  of  the  severall  churches,  &t 
by  the  comissioners  in  their  places,  and  the  partie  de- 
linquent to  pay  one  hundred  pounds  of  tobacco  or  layd 
in  the  stocks,  and  to  take  care  that  servants  and  others 
do  repaire  to  their  severall  churches  everie  Lord's 
day. 


Lnns  of  Eng 
land  against 
bigamy  adopt- 
ed. 


ACT  IV. 

Against  Biggamy. 

THE  lawes  of  England  against  biggamy  or  have- 
ing  more  then  one  wife  or  husband  shall  be  putt  in 
execution  in  this  countrie. 


Process  to  is- 
sue from  under 
the  clerk's  or 
secretary's 
hands,  01  by 
entry  in  the 
co'ty.  court. 

Not  to 
abridge  the 
governor's 
power. 


ACT  V. 

Warrants  and  Writts,  how  to  issue. 

ALL  warrants  and  other  writts  for  suites  in  lawe 
shall  ordinarielie  issue  vnder  the  secretarie  or  clarkes 
hand,  either  for  quarter  courte,  countie  court,  or  else 
by  entery  of  actions  in  the  countie  courte,  and  the  sher- 
riffes  summons  on  the  said  actions  as  formerly  and 
this  to  be  vnderstood  to  be  noe  prohibition  of  the  Go- 
vernours  power. 


Divulgers  of 
false  news 
concerning 
thp  found. 


43S 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


Preamble. 


Servants 
marrying 

without  con- 
sent of  master 
or  mistress  to 
serve  one  year 
after  their  re- 
spective 
terms. 


Free  man 
marrying-  a 
servant  wo- 
man to  pay 
double  the  va- 
lue of  the  ex 
tra  service. 
Man  servant 
committing 
fornication 
with  a  woman 
servant  to 
serve  her 
owner  one 
year  or  pay 
1500  lb.  to- 
bacco, and 
give  security 
to  indemnity 
the  parish 
against  the 
ej  nouses  of 
the  child. 
Free  man  get- 
ting a  bastard 
on  a  servant 
woman,  how 
punishable. 


ACT  XIV. 

Concerning  secret  Marriages. 

WHEREAS  many  greate  abuses  and  much  detri- 
ment hath  been  found  to  arise  both  against  the  lawe 
of  God  and  likewise  to  the  service  of  many  masters 
of  ffamilies  in  this  collonie,  occasioned  through  se- 
cret marriages  of  servants,  their  masters  and  mistresses 
not  any  waies  made  privie  thereunto,  As  also  by 
comitting  of  ffornication  ;  for  the  prevention  of  the 
like  abuses  hereafter,  Bee  it  enacted,  and  confirmed 
by  this  Grand  Assembly  that  what  servant  soever  hath 
since  January,  1656,  or  hereafter  shall  secretly  marrie 
with  any  maid  or  woman  servant  without  the  consent 
of  her  master  or  mistresse,  (if  she  be  a  widowe)  hee 
or  they  soe  offending  shall  in  the  first  place  serve  out 
his  or  their  times  with  his  or  their  master  or  mistresse, 
and  after  shall  serve  his  or  their  said  master  or  mis- 
tresse, one  complete  yeare  more  for  such  offence  comit- 
ed,  And  the  maid  or  woman  servant  so  marrying  with- 
out consent  as  aforesaid  shall  for  such  her  offence  to 
her  master  or  mistresse  serve  one  year  after  her  free- 
dom by  indenture,  And  a  freeman  so  offending  shall 
give  satisfaction  to  the  master  or  mistresse  by  doubling 
the  valew  of  the  service. 

And  it  is  also  further  enacted  and  confirmed  by  the 
authoritie  of  this  Grand  Assembly  that  if  any  mans'  ser- 
vant shall  hereafter  com  it  the  act  of  ffornication  with 
any  maid  [worne  outf] 

appointed  in  like  cases  give  satisfaction  for  the  loss  of 
her  service  to  her  said  master  or  mistresse  by  his  ser- 
vice of  one  compleat  yeare,  or  pay  fifteen  hundred 
pounds  of  tobacco  and  give  securitie  to  save  harmeless 
the  parish  and  her  said  master  or  mistresse,  and  de- 
fraye  all  charge  of  keeping  the  child,  And  a  freeman 
so  offending  shall  for  his  offence  pay  fifteen  hundred 
pounds  of  tobacco  or  one  year's  service  to  the  master 
or  mistresse  of  the  woman  or  maid  servant  of  whom  hee 


t  So  in   MS.— See  act  XX  of  1642-3,  ante  pa.  252,  of  which  this 
act  is   an   amendment. — From  the  above  act  it  would  seem  that  the 
words  torn    out  were  "  or  woman  servant,  he  shall  for  his  offence 
besides  tne  punishment  by  law" 


MARCH,  1657-8— 9th  OF  COMMONWEALTH,  439 

shall  gett  a  bastard,  As  also  give  securitie  to  save  the  To  give  sccu- 

parish  and  her  said  master  and  mistresse  harmelesse  h  JahithediUd 
defray  all  charge  about    keeping  the  child,    And  the 

woman  servant  so  offendina;to  suffer  according  to  lawe,  Punishment  oi 

a  i       i  j  „!  •».•         /r        •  the  woman. 

Also  be  it  enacted  that  every  person  coimttmg  fform- 

cation  shall  pay  five  hundred  pounds  of  tobacco  to  the  Fornication 

vse  of  the  parish  where  the  said  act  is  comitted  or  be  generally, 

•  .  *  how  punished 

whipt. 


ACT  XV. 

Concerning  Hireing  of  Servants. 

WHEREAS  divers  persons  do  enter  into  covenant  Preamble 
with  runnaway  servants  and  freemen  who  have  for- 
merly hired  themselves  to  others,  to  the  greate  preju- 
dice if  not  vttervndoeing  of  diverse  poore  men  thereby 
also  encourageing  servants  to  runnaway  from  their 
masters  and  absent  themselves  in  some  remote  planta- 
tions, Vpon  consideration  had  for  the  future  preventing 
of  the  like  injuries  and  vnjust  dealings,  Bee  it  enacted  Penalty  for 
and  confirmed  that  what  person  or  persons  soever  shall  hiring  a  nma 

.    •  i  •      i-  i  way  servant  or 

entertaine  any  person  as  hireling,  or  sharer,  or  vppon   ,Hlson  tor. 
anie  other  condition  for  any  time   without  certificate  merly  hired  to 
from  some  comissioner  of  the  place  or  his  master  that  another w"n" 

»../•/•  r  •  i        out  a  certifi- 

ne  or  she  is  tree  from  any  engagement  of  service,  the  cate  tnat  he  is 
person  soe  hireing  without  certificate  as  aforesaid  shall   free  from  any 
for  every  night  that  bee  or  shee  entertaineth  any  servant  enga£enlen1 
either  as  hireling  or  otherwise  forfeit  to  the  master  or 
mistresse  of  the  said  servant  thirtie  pounds  of  tobacco 
and  everie   free  man  (by  hee  or  shee  entertained)  for- 
merly hired  by  another  as  aforesaid,  hee  or  shee  shall 
forfeit  to  the  party  who  had  first  hired  him  thirtie  pounds 
of  tobacco  for  every  night  as  aforesaid,  And  in  all  theise 
cases  the  partie  hired  shall  receive  such  censure  and   party  lured 
punishment  as  shall  bee  thought   fitt    by    the    court,   howpunwhed: 
Allwaies  provided  that  if  any  such  runnaway  servants    P|,,VI"" 
or  hired  ffreemen,  shall  produce  a  certificate  wherein 
it  appeares  that  they  are  free  from  their  former  mas- 
ters service  or  from  any  other  engagement  respectively, 
If  afterwards  it  shall  be  proved  that  such  certificate  be 
counterfeit,  then  the  receiver  not  to  suffer  according  to 
the  penaltie   of  this  act,  but  such  punishment  shall  be 
inflicted  vpon  the  fforger  or  procureors  thereof  as  the 
court  shall  think  fitt. 


440 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


ACT  XVI. 

Against  Runnaway  Servants. 


Preamble. 


Pi  oaltj  on 
runaway  ser- 
vants far  the 
irst  offence. 


For  the  iVi  of- 
fence to  be 
branded  on 
the  shoulder 
with  (he  letter 
E  and  serve 
double  the 
'•::ne  lost. 

Penalty  for  en- 
tertaining- 
them. 

Remedy  for 
.servants  com- 
plaining of 
harsh  usage, 
or  insufficient 
food  or  rai- 
ment. 


How  to  pro- 
reed. 

Power  of 
courts. 

No  servant  to 
be  ill  ust  d 


WHEREAS  there  are  divers  loyteringe  runnawaies 
in  this  countrey  who  very  often  absent  themselves  from 
their   masters  service,  and   some  times  in  a  long  time 
cannot  be  found,   whereby  their  said  masters  are  at 
great  charge  in  finding  of  them,  and  manie  times  even 
to  the  losse  of  their  yeares  labour  before  they  be  had 
Bee  it  therefore  enacted  and  confirmed,  that  all  runna- 
wayesthat  shall  absent  themselves  from  their  said  mas- 
ter's service  shall  be  liable  to  make  satisfaction  by  ser- 
vice  at   the   end   of   their   times  by  indenture  vizt. 
double  the  time  of  service  so  neglected  and  in  some 
cases  more  if  the  com'rs.  for  that  place  appointed  shall 
find  requisite  and  convenient,  And  if  such  runnawaies 
shall  be  found  so  to  transgresse  the  second  time  or  oft- 
ner,  if  it   shall  be  duely   proved  against   them,    then 
they  shall  be   branded  in   the  shoulder  with  the  letter 
R.    and  alsoe  double  their  time  of  service  neglected, 
and  likewise  double  his  time  if  at  any  time  afterwards 
hee    shall  neglect,  and   in   some   cases   more  if    the 
court  shall  think  fitt.     And  be  it  also  further  enacted, 
That  he  or  shee  that  shall  lodge  or  harbor  any  runna- 
way shall  pay  thirtie  pounds  of  tobacco  for  everie  night 
as  long  as  they  shall  be  prooved  to  entertaine  them, 
contrary  to  the  former  act  about  hireing  of  servants; 
And  it  shall  belawfull  for  any  servant  giveing  notice  to 
his  master,  haveing  just   cause  of  complaint    against 
their  masters  by  harsh  and  bad  vsage,  or  else  for  want 
of  diett  or  convenient  necessaries,   to   repaire  to  the 
next  com'r.  to  make  his  or  their  complaint  And  if  the 
said  comissioner  shall  find  by  just  proofe  that  the  said 
servants  cause  of  complaint  is  just,  the  said  com'r.  is 
hereby  required  to  give  order  for  the  warneing  of  the 
said  master  or  mistresse  before  the  com'rs.  in  the  se- 
verall  countie  courts,  where  the  matter  in  difference 
shall  be  decided,  as  they  in  their  discretions  shall  think 
Jitt,  and  that  care  be  had  that  no  servant  or  servants 
be   misvsed  by  their   master  or  mistresse  where  they 
-hall  find  the  complaint  to  be  just. 


MARCH,  1657-8— 9th  OF  COMMONWEALTH.  44i 

ACT  XVH. 

No  JLmunition  to  be  Sent  or  Sold  to  the  Indians. 

BEE  it  also  enacted  and  confirmed,  that  what  pe rson  Person  solim« 

or  persons  soever  shall  barter  or  sell  with  any  Indian  armsoram- 

or  Indians  for  peice,  powder  or  shott,  and  being  there-  n,u"l,jon  tl' 

of  lawfully  convicted,  shall  forfeite  his  whole  estate,  feits  his  whole 

The  one  halfe  to  the  informer,  and  the  other  halfe  to  estate. 

the  countie  where  such  fact  shall  be  comittecl  :  And  be  Lending  such 

it  further  enacted,  That  what  person  or  persons  so-   t0  ,l"liau> ix 

•  i  •      .1  •  ii  i     n    i       i  i     ,•  •■  may  be  seized 

ever  within  this  collonie  shall  lend  any  Indian  either   andapprbpi* 

peice,  powder  or  shott,  it  shall  be  lawfull  for  any  per-   ated  by  ;un 
son  or  persons  meeting  such  Indian  so  furnished,  to   ono 
take  away  either  peice  powder  or  shott,  so  as  the  per- 
son takeing  it  away,  carry  the  same  to  some  com'r.  of 
the  county  and   acquaint  him  therewith,  which  said 
comissioncr  is  herein'  authorized  to  give  possession  to 
the  informer  of  the  said  peice,  powder  or  shott,  so 
brought  before  him  :  And  the  said  comissioner  is  fur-   , 
ther  required  to  make  strict  enquiry  and  examination   missioner 
to  find  out  such  person  as  did  lend  or  give  such  peice, 
powder  or  shott,  to  the  Indians,  and  in  case  the  said 
com'rs.  or  other  com'rs.  shall  find  any  person  by  just 
proofe  delinquent  in  the  premisses  hec  or  they  are  to 
binde  over  the  partie  to  answer  the  same  before  the  Go- 

vernour  and  council!  the  ensueiner  quarter  court,  And   „ 

,  ,  -ii-  °   i      i  •    r  re  Penalty  on 

.in  such  case  the  partie  delinquent,  for  his  first  offence,   person  lend- 

shall  forfeit  two  thousand  pounds  of  tobacco,  The  one  "»g  for  \       sheriff 
to   
tents  be  made  without  exact  survey  produced  in  the 
secretaries  office  as  aforesaid. 


issue  n  ithout 
exact  surveys 


ACT  XXVI. 

Against  Tradcing  with  Servants. 

WHEREAS  divers  ill  disposed  persons  do  secretly  Preamble, 
and  covertly  trade  and  truck  with  other  mens'  servants 
and  apprentices  which  tendeth  to  the  great  injurie  of 
masters  of  families  their  servants  being  thereby  in- 
duced and  invited  to  purloine  and  imbezill  the  goods  of 
their  said  masters,  Bee  it  therefore  enacted  for  redresse  For  trailing 
of  the  like   disorders  and  abuses  hereafter  that  what  witn  ;i|Iotli«" 

ii  i  ii  j  I  •   i      man's  serv't. 

person  or  persons  snail  buy,  sell,  trade  or  truck  with    l  montjls  jm 
any  servant,  for   any    comoditie    whatsoever  without  prfsonnrt 
lycenee  or  consent  of  the  master  of  any  such  servant 
hee  or  they  so  offending  against  the  premises  shall  suf- 
fer one  monthes    imprisonment  without  bail  or  main- 
prize  and   also  shall  forfeite  and  restore  to  the  master  And  4  times 

/•i  •  i  ^  /•  •  i  i  £•     i_       i  •  the  value  ol 

of  the  said  servant  tower  times  the  value  or   toe  things  the  article  to 
so  bought,  sold,  trucked  or  traded  for.  be  paid. 


ACT  XXVII. 

Councellors  free  from  Levies.  Members  oi 

irr\  ■  lit-  n  j   /i  i  i      mi  council  and 

11   is  enacted  by  t/us  present  ixrand  Assembly,  i  na5  teatithables 

each  of  the  Council  of  State  in  this  collony  shall  be  exempted 
freely  exempted  from  all  publique  charges  and  taxes  for     Church '  •"' 

them  and  ten  tithables,  church  duties  excepted.  duties 


ACT  XXVIII. 

Comissioners  to  lake  Securitie  of  Shcrri/fes.  „  u 

•J  ~J  Co  ty  courts 

BEE  it  also   enacted,  That  the  comissioners  of  the  totakesuffi- 
severall  counties  respectively  shall,  before  the  admission  of^herhrs'for 
of  any   sherriffes  into  their  offices,  take  such  securitie  the  perform- 
as  they  shall    think  fitt   and   sufficient  of  the   severall  ancedf  their 
countie  sherriffes  respectively,  for  the  performance  of  laHyVor'ti" 
lheirplaces,especially  for  the  receiveingand  discharge-  collection  and 
ing  all   publique   duties   and   officers'   flees  comitted  Pay|ncnt  0/ 

i-i  f        ii       •  t  -f    i  -i  •  public  taxis 

to  their  charge  of  collection,  and  if  the    said    comis-  and  officer 

sioners  respectively  shall  omitt  the  same,  then  they  to  fees  or  be  lia 

be  liable  and  responciblp  for  the  same  or  anv  part  of  ^i'^/'Ji,'1' 

the  same.  sheriff 


446 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


Preamble. 

Rates  of 
wine  ■  Mala- 
ga, Canary, 
Sherry,  Mus- 
cadine, Tent, 
Alicant  60  lb. 
of  iob.  per 
gallon 

Madeira  and 
Fayal  50  lb. 
French  30  lb. 
Engl,  strong 
waters  120 
lb.  tob.  per 
gallon. 
.Aqua  vita?  or 
brandy  60  lb. 
per  gallon. 

Penalty  for 
mixing  or 
corrupting 
liquors. 

For  exceeding 
the  legal  rates. 

Rates  of  li- 
quors to  be  fix- 
ed yearly  by 
'he  assembly. 


ACT   XXIX. 

Wines  and  Strong  Waters  Retailed,  how  to  be  rated. 

WHEREAS  there  hath  bin  a  great  abuse  by  the 
vnreasonable  rates  exacted  by  ordinarie  keepers  and 
retailers  of  wine  and  strong  waters,  Bee  it  enacted, 
That  no  person  or  persons  whatsoever  retailing 
wines  and  strong  waters  shall  exact  or  take  for  any 
Spanish  wines,  ViZt.  Mallaga,  Canary.  Sherry,  Mus- 
cadine, Tent  or  Aligant  above  the  rate  of  sixtie  pounds 
of  tobacco  per  gallon,  And  for  Madera  and  ffiall  wine 
above  fiftie,  and  for  all  flrench  wines  above  thirtie  lb. 
of  tobacco  per  gallon :  and  for  the  best  sorte  of  all 
English  strong  waters  above  the  rate  of  one  hundred  and 
twenty  pounds  of  tobacco  per  gallon,  and  for  aqua  vitae 
or  brandy  above  the  rate  of  sixty  per  gallon,  and  if 
any  person  or  persons  retailing  wines  or  strong  waters 
as  aforesaid  shall  fraudulently  mix  or  corrupt  the  same, 
Vpon  complaint  and  due  proof  made  thereof  before  two 
comissioners,  whereof  one  to  be  of  the  quorum,  the 
said  comissioners  shall  by  warrant  vnder  their  hands 
cause  the  constable  to  stave  the  same,  And  if  any  shall 
take  more  then  such  rates  sett,  they  shall  be  fined  dou- 
ble the  value  of  such  rates  so  exacted,  and  their  rates 
to  be  considered  on  yearly  by  the  Assembly  according 
to  the  scarceness  of  the  com  modi  tie  or  as  the  price  of 
tobacco  shall  rise  or  fall. 


ACT  XXX. 

Countie  Courts  imp oiverrd  to  grant  Probats  and  Admi- 
nistrations.''' 

Preamble  WHEREAS  the  estates  of  deceased  persons  in  this 

collonie  have  bin  much  wronged  by  the  great  charge 
and  expences  which  have  bin  brought  in  by  the  admi- 
nistrators thereof,  vpon  pretence  of  their  attendance 
at  James  Cittie,  and  the  distance  of  their  habita- 
tions from  thence,  for  remedie  whereof,  and  because 
the  abuses  may  be  the  better  knowne  and  prevented  in 
the  place  where  the  decedent  dwelt    and  the  estates 

*  See  act  IX  of  November,  1645,  (ante  pa.  302)  of  which  this  is 

"i  amendment 


MARCH,  1657-8— 9th  OF  COMMONWEALTH.  447 

belonging  to  orphans  and  absent  men  the  better  pre-   Administra- 
served,  Be  it  enacted  that  administrations  may  be  grant-  L^anteTby 
ed  at  the  county  courts,  where  such  person  or  persons  coty.  courts 
did  reside  or  inhabitt ;  and  probate  of  wills  there  made  where  the 
and  wills   recorded  together  with  the  appraisements,   dwelt. 
inventories  and  accompis  belonging  to  the  same  there      Apprais  and 

**  thf*  sumo  be- 

be  recorded  by  the  clarke  of  the  countie  court  before  \ng  recorded 

one  of  the  comissioners  of  the  quorum,    in  a  booke  to  by  the  clerk 

be  kept  for  that  purpose,  then  such  judgment  shall  be  °^h(e  1°""^' 

equally  binding  as  if  given  by  the  court,  and  execution  ;,  magistrate, 

to  issue  accordingly,  and  the  dark's  fee  for  cntringsuch  execution 

judgment  to  be  tenn  pounds  of  tobacco,  and  for  an  au-  cUtftofei 
thentique  copy  fower  pounds  of  tobacco. 

•Taken  from  act XI  of  .November.  1645 — See  ante  pa  304. 


448 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA. 


ACT  XXXIII. 

Certificate  of  Judgment. 

.mil- tin  one  BEE  it  alsoe  enacted  that  a  judgment  being  entered 

comity,  how  |u  miy  0f  t|,e  county  courts  and    certified   vnder  the 

fssne"in°"  l°  darks  hand  into  an  other  county,  Judgment}  shall  there 

another  issue,  as  if  judgment  had  bin  given  in  the  said  county. 


"Sheriff  to  t;ikr 
bail  on  arrests. 
Consequence 
of  failure,  or 
■f  permitting 
«an  escane 


When  sheriff 
or  bail  may 
have  attach- 
ment against 
'he  principal. 


How  sheriff  or 
bail  may  dis- 
charge them- 
S  elves. 


■Courts  to  be 

punctually 

held. 

JCxtra  courts. 

Courts  to 
Appoint  their 
•own  clerks. 


ACT  XXXIV. 

Sherriffs  to  take  sufficient  Baile.]. 

BEE  it  hereby  enacted  that  all  sherriffs  shall  take 
sufficient  baile  of  all  persons  arrested  with  this  con- 
dition  to  bring  forth  the  partie  arrested,  or  performe 
the  award  of  the  court,  and  if  the  sherriff  shall  neglect 
to  take  sufficient  baile  of  the  partie  arrested  or  other- 
wise consent  to  be  the  cause  of  his  escape,  Then  the 
said  sherr:  shall  bee  liable  to  pay  the  award  of  the 
court  him  self e,  and  the  sherrifle  if  he  require  it  shall 
have  an  attachment  against  the  estate  of  the  partie  ar- 
rested, and  judgement  the  next  court  following;  but  if 
the  partie  arrested  shall  not  appeare  to  answer  the  suite 
baile  being  given  then  judgment  shall  be  awarded 
against  the  baile,  and  the  baile  so  condemned,  if  it  be 
required,  shall  have  an  attachment  against  the  estate  of 
the  partie  so  arrested  not  appearing,  and  the  court  fol- 
lowing judgment  therevpon,  Alwaies  provided  that  if 
the  said  sherrifTor  baile  at  the  next  court  after  the  first 
impleadingdo  bring  forth  the  body  or  goods  of  the  said 
partie  so  arrested  to  satisfie  the  award  of  the  court, 
then  the  said  sherr:  or  baile  shall  be  acquitted,  And 
the  convrs.  shall  be  precisely  tied  to  keep  the  daies 
appointed  for  their  meeting  by  act  of  Assembly,  and 
for  no  cause  alter  the  same,  but  it  shall  be  lawfull  for 
the  comissioners  to  hold  courts  at  other  times  if  occasi- 
on shall  require,  And  it  shall  be  in  the  power  of  the 
severall  courts  to  nominate  and  approve  the  clarkes  of 

t  The  word  "judgment"  here  is  clearly  a  mistake.     It  should  be 
execution" — See  act  XIII  of  November,  1645  (ante  pa.  304)  from 

which  this  act  is  taken. 


i  Altered  from  act  XIV  of  Nov.  1645 — See  ante  pa.  305. 


MARCH,  1657-8-9th  OF  COMMONWEALTH.  44i. 

Their  fees  as 

the  comity  courts,*  who  are  to  pay  the  secretaire  the  formerly 

vsuall  composition  and  fees  as  formerly,  Provided  none  Existing 

...  ,  x   .  .         ,  .  .  clerks  not  to 

that  is  clarke  at  present  be  putt  out  ot  tins  place,  with-  oe  rem0Ved 

out  manifest  cause  prooved  against  him.  without  good 

/  came. 


ACT  XXXV. 

Prisoners'  Charges  how  to  be  raised. 

BEE  it  enacted  and  confirmed,  That  the  charges  and  ,  CHminal 

/»            /•                          /.           •      •       11                    r       v  r           i    i        i  charges,  when 

fees  ol  prisoners  For  criminal!  causes  lor  hie  and  death  t0  be  paid  by 

shall  be  defrayed  by  the  severall  counties  respectively,  the  prisoner. 

where  the  (fact    he   was    accused  of  was  committed,  wh^"  by  thc 

in  case  the  said  prisoner  shall  be  found  guiltie,  but  if  Expense  of 

not  guiltie  of  any  accusation  not  tending  to  liis  life,  witnesses  to 

he  shall  beare  his  owne  charges,  and  discharge  his  clJ^tv  by 
ffees  but  the  countie  to  pay  the  charge  of  the  eviden- 
ces. 


ACT  XXXVI. 

Accounts  to  be  ballanced  in  Courts. f 

BEE  it  enacted  for  the  avoideing  of  manie  causeless   Difcrorints  L 
suites  in  lawe,  That  where  any  suite  shall  be  coinen-   setoffs,  how 
ced  either  at  quarter  courte  or    county  court,  That  if  a,,owed 
the  defendant  have  either  bill,  bond  or  accompt  of 
the  plaintiff,  wherein  he  prooves  him  debtor,  that  in 
such  case  the  court  shall  ballance  debts,  consideration 
and  allowance  being  had  for  charges  to  him  that  be-  No  assjgnm'J 
gnnue  the  suite,  as  also  to  the  time  when  such  bills,  Srhnoutthe 
bonds  and  accompts  where  due,  to  be  compared  to  the  knowledge oi 
accompts  in  ballance,  Alhuaies  provided  that  no  debts  ^ot,"  Partic*- 

I  )*»ljjc  opt   Oil 

by  bill  or  accompt  whatsoever,  be  passed  or  turned  o-  must  be  of 
ver  without  the  knowledge  of  both  parties,  and  that  the  like  na- 
the  bill  and  acco't.  be  of  the  like  nature  and  value.        ,u,r  &  v:'1'"' 


•  By  act  XIV  of  Nov.    1645  (ante  pa.  305)  the  governor  was  au 
thorised  to  appoint  clerks  of  courts. 

f  See  act  XVI  of  February,  1644-5,  ante  pa.  296—  Act  XI  of 
March,  1645-6,  from  which  this  act  is  taken,  with  an  amendment  nt 
the  end  of  the  act. 

1    1 


450 


laws  of  Virginia, 


Physicians 
and  surge- 
ons, how  com- 
pelled to  de- 
clare, on  oath, 
the  value  of 
their  drugs 
and  medi- 
cines. 


Courts  may 
allow  what 
they  deem 
reasonable. 
Penalty  on 
phisicians  and 
surgeons  for 
neglecting 
their  patients 
or  refusing 
assistance. 


ACT  XXXVII. 

Chyrurgians  Regulated.^ 

FOR  the  regulateing  of  the  imoderate  excessive 
rates  and  prices  exacted  by  practitioners  of  phisick 
and  chirurgery,  Bee  it  enacted  that  it  shall  be  lawfull 
and  free  for  any  person  or  persons  where  they  shall 
conceive  the  account  of  the  phisitian  or  chirurgeon  to 
be  vnreasonable  either  for  his  paines,  druggs  or  mede- 
cines  to  arrest  the  said  phisitian  or  chirurgeon  either 
to  the  quarter  court  or  county  court  where  they  inha- 
bit, where  the  said  phisitian  shall  declare  vpon  oath 
the  true  valew,  worth  and  quantity  of  his  druggs  and 
medecines  administred  to  or  for  the  vse  of  the  plain- 
tifl'e,  Wherevpon  the  court  where  the  matter  is  tried 
shall  adjudge  and  allow  the  said  phisitian  or  chirurge- 
on such  satisfaction  and  reward  as  they  in  their  discre- 
tions shall  think  fitt,  And  it  is  further  ordered  that 
where  it  shall  be  sufficiently  proved  in  any  of  the  said 
courts  that  a  phisitian  or  chirurgeon  hath  neglected  his 
patient,  or  that  he  hath  refused  (being  therevnto  requir- 
ed) his  helpe  and  assistance  to  any  person  or  persons 
in  sicknes  or  extremitie,  that  the  said  phisitian  or  chi- 
rurgeon shall  be  censured  by  the  court  for  such  his 
neglect  or  refusal). 


Public  and 
county  levies 
to  be  first  se- 
cured by  slie- 
rius  before 
any  private 
d  -bt  or  fees. 
Penalty. 


ACT  XXXVIII. 

No e  fees  to  be  received  by  the  Sherriff  before  the  Levie.% 

BEE  it  further  enacted,  That  no  sherriff  or  sherriffs 
whatsoever  do  receive  his  owne  or  other  officers'  fees, 
due  or  sallary  or  any  other  debt  belonging  to  private 
persons  before  payment  be  made  by  the  party  of  the 
publique  and  county  levies,  vpon  the  peunaltie  of  one 
thousand  pounds  of  tobacco  for  everie  sherriffe  or 
sheriffs  that  shall  do  or  receive  any  tobaccoe  contrary 
to  the  tenor  hereof. 


t  This  was  probably  taken  from  the  act  of  October,  1639,  which 
is  recited  and  revised  by  act  XV  of  March.  1654-6 — See  ante  pa 
316. 

J  Act  IX  of  October,  1646,  ante  pa.  330. 


:. 


MARCH,  1657-8— 9th  OF  COMMONWEALTH. 


451 


ACT  XXXIX. 

(Concerning  Land    in  Jive  yeares  possession  without 

claimed 


WHEREAS  sundry  suites,  controversies  and  de- 
bates in  lawe  have  bin  and  dayly  do  arise  about 
elaimes  and  titles  to  land  to  the  great  impoverishing  of 
divtrs personsf  for  remedie  and  redresse  of  the  like  in- 
conveniencies  hereafter  and  for  the  better  establishing 
the  rights  and  possessions  of  the  inhabitants,  Bee  it  en- 
acted that  all  persons  whatsoever  that  have  or  doe  pre- 
tend any  title  to  any  land  shall  prosecute  their  claime 
before  the  said  land  hath  bin  peaceably  enjoyed  ffive 
yeares,  otherwise  it  shall  be  a  good  plea  in  barr  for  the 
possessor  of  such  land  claimed  or  pretended,  to  affirme 
he  hath  had  peaceable  possession  without  claime  by 
comencement  of  suit,  and  prosecution  to  judgment  to 
the  time  limitted  by  this  said  act,  which  shall  be  ac- 
compted  a  sufficient  confirmation  to  the  said  possessor, 
and  shall  conclude  the  claime  and  title  of  the  preten- 
der ;  And  this  act  is  to  extend  to  all  such  that  have 
not  prosecuted  their  titles  within  ffive  yeares  since  the 
sixth  day  of  October,  1646 — Alhoaies  provided  that 
the  limittation  of  ffive  yeares  in  this  act  expressed  shall 
not  barr  orphans  from  their  titles,  nor  women  vnder  co- 
vertt,  or  persons  of  not  sound  romy 
satisfaction  to  their  creditors,  by  the  appraisement  of  surrendering- 

,  ii  ii  ,•  property  to 

two  honest  persons,  one  to  be  chosen  b\  the  creditor,  their  creditors 
the  other  by  the  debtor,  such  creditor  shall  be  compell-  to  be  rajued 
ed  to  accept  of  the  same  as  satisfaction  for  their  debt.nnd   ''v  f.  "".""  mu" 

'  .  '  tuallv  chosen 

where  two  appraisers  chosen  cannot  agree  in  such  case  or  their  um- 
the  two  next  adjoining  comissioners  to  determine  the  p'»'e. 


ACT  XLVII. 

Judgement  of  a  Debt  bpfore  one  or  more  Comissioners, 

attested  by  them. 

IT  is  enacted  that  the  confession   and  acknowledg-  Where  a  debt 

ment  of  a  debt  by  the  debtor  vnder  his  handljefore  any  exceeds  not 

comissiouer,  shall  be  accompted  in  lawe  in  the  nature  400  ib.  tob. 

and  quality  of  a  judgment,  soe  as  the  writing  be  attest-  judgm't.  may 
ed  by  the  said  comissioner  vnder  his  hand,  and  execu- 
tion shall  therevpon  issue,  in  case  the  debt  be  not  paid 

according  to  the  tenor  of  the  writeing,  being  attested  writing  at- 

as  aforesaid,  Provided  that  the  debt  exceed  not  the  va-  {es*?dby  hiw 

/Y»  ••  /V  11  1  'n    "'le   mar)- 

lue  of  mve  pounds  sterling  or  flower  hundred  pounds  ncr  judgmt 

of  tobacco;  and  in  case  the  acknowledgement  of  the  to  any  amo't 

debt  be  made  as  aforesaid  before  two  comissioners  and  Jjjjg^dbefori 

attested  by  them  as  aforesaid,  then  the  judgment  shall  2 commission 

be  binding  and  the  execution  therevppon  shall  be  legall,  c,s- 

,     .  ill  c      1    \        1  •  To  be  re 

being  once  payable  md  due,  of  what  valew  soever,  ei-  corded  fhe 
ther  in  money  or  tobaccoe  the  debt  shall  be;   Provided  next  county 
the  same  bee  recorded  the  next  county  courte.  court 


be  confessed 
before  a  com- 
missioner in 


ACT  XLVIIF. 

'Indians  not  to  be  assigned  over. 

IT  is  enacted  that  in  case  any  Indian  do  dispose  of  iUdiaa  chil 
his  childe  to  any  person   or  persons  whatsoever,  ei-  dren  confide.' 
ther  for  education  or  instruction  in  Christian  religion,  ^/^'"jj/ 
or  for  learning  the  English  tongue  or  for  what  cause  p0se  what- 
soever, those  persons   to  whom  such  childe  shall  be  ever,  not  to  be 
disposed   shall    not   assigne  or  transfer-re  such  Indian  transfcrred 
child  to  any  other  whatsoever,  vpon  any  pretence  what- 


45fj 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


Such  Indian     soever  of  right  to  him  or  any  time  of  service  due  from 
be'free  at  25     n'm'  *^nd  **  ts  furt^er  enacted  that  such  Indian  childc 

shall   be  free  and   at  his  owne  disposall  at  the  age  of 

twenty  five  yeares. 


Dimensions 
of  tobacco 
hogshead?. 


Penalty  for 
exceeding  the| 
lesral  size. 


For  making 
casks  of  tim 
ber  iiot  sea- 
soned. 


ACT  XLIX. 

The  size  of  Tobacco  Caske. 

IT  is  enacted.  Vpon  the  complaint  of  divers  masters 
and  merchants  of  shipps  against  the  incertainty  and 
extraordinary  size  of  caske,  which  hath  bin  very 
much  prejudiciall  to  them,  that  a  certainesizeof  all  to- 
bacco caske  of  Virginia  hhds.  shall  be  as  followeth, 
vizt.  ffourtie  three  inches  in  length  and  the  head  twentie 
h  sixe  inches  wide  with  the  bulge  proportionable  ;  and 
whosoever  shall  make  caske  of  a  greater  size  shall  pay 
vpon  proofe  made  to  any  court,  if  hee  be  a  freeman, 
(otherwise  his  master  or  mistresse  that  imploies  him) 
three  thousand  pounds  of  tobasco,  the  one  halfe  to  the 
informer,  and  the  other  halfe  to  the  countey  where  the 
caske  is  made,  and  if  any  caske  shall  be  made  of  tim- 
ber not  well  seasoned  then  such  caske  to  be  burnte. 


Co'ty  courts 
to  fix  rewards 
for  killing 
wolves,  at 
their  own 
discretion. 


ACT  L. 

Countie  Courts  to  levie  Rewards  for  killing  of  Wolves. 

WHEREAS  great  complaint  is  made  of  the  fre- 
quent and  many  injuries  done  by  wolves  to  the  cattell 
and  hoggs  of  several!  inhabitants,  It  is  therefore 
thought  fitt  and  enacted  by  this  Grand  Assembly  for  the 
better  encouragement  of  those  that  kill  and  destroy 
wolves,  that  the  com'rs.  of  the  severall  counties  shall 
hereby  have  power  to  advance  and  augment  the  reward 
appointed  for  killing  of  wolves,  to  such  quantitie  of  to- 
baccoe  as  to  their  discretions  shall  be  found  fitt  and 
reasonable. 


ACT  LI. 

Indians  to  be  first  served  with  Land. 

No  grams  to         BEE  it   enacted  by  this  present   Grand  Assembly 
issue  till  a        tj)at  tiiere  be  uo  grants  0f  ianf]  to  any  Englishman 


MARCH,  1657-8— 9th  OF  COMMONWEALTH.  457 

whatsoever  (de  future)  vntil  the  Indians  he  first  served  certain  pro 

with  the  proportion  of  ffiftie  acres  of  land  for  each  bow  -  [ZTZ  aflot. 

man  ;  and  the  proportion  for  ear  1 1  periicular  towne  to  ted  toeach 

lie  together,  and  to  be  surveyed  as  well  woodland  as  bowman-oi 

clecred  ground,   and  to  be  layd  out  before  patterned,  prfJnegTo 

with  libertie  of  all  waste  and  vnfenced  land  for  hunt-  allwasfc 

ing  for  the  Indians,  And  be  it  further  enacted  that  where  lru1'1;- '"' 

the  land  of  any  Indian  or  Indians  bee  found  to  be  in-  |'n'>' 

eluded  in  an}'  pattent  allreadie  granted  for  land  at  Rap-  lands  incfodi  id  Assembly,  that  no  officer  or  officers 
shall  from  henceforth  execute  any  writt  or  warrants 
vpon  any  person  or  persons  in  time  of  exercize  or  v.m~ 
'er  for  that  day,  nor  on  the  Sabboth  day. 


day. 


ACT  LIII. 

Indians  to  Kill  Wolves. 

WHEREAS  of  late  yeares  the  wolves  have  mul-   Indians  to  bi>|°ye' 

it  r  rni  •     y*  /    i  comm  rs.  ol 

and  decrease  of  cattell  and  hoggs  lias  u rami  Assem-  cly  doth  therefore  enact  and  declare,  And  b<>  it  hereby  ^  kill 

enacted  and  declared   that  the   comissioners  of  each   vv"  ves 

countie  courte  respectively  shall    take   order    for    the 

destroying  them  in  what  way   they  shall  best  agree,  r?TT{ied 

by  imploying    Indians    or  otherwise,    Provided  they    armed  with 

arme  not  the  Indians  with  English  urines  and   gunns    ••».'    ; 

contrary  to  act  of  Assembly. 

3  K 


45fe 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


Sufficient 
fences  to  be 
made,  four 
feet  and  a 
half  high  ; 
otherwise  the 
owner  of  the 
land  to  have 
no  redress  for 
trespasses  ;  k, 
liable  to  the 
owner  of  the 
beasts  for 
hurting  or  in- 
juring them. 
And,  for  kill- 
ing them  to 
pay  the  value 
and  double 
damages. 


If  the  fence 
be  sufficient, 
the  owner  of 
the  land  to 
have  satisfac- 
tion. 


How  fences 
to  be  viewed. 


ACT  LIV. 

What  ffences  shall  be  sufficient* 

BEE  it  also  enacted  and  confirmed  by  this  present 
Grand,  Assembly.  That  everie  planter  shall  make  a 
sufficient  ffence  about  his  cleered  ground  at  the  least 
fower  foot  and  a  halfe  high,  which  if  he  shall  be  defi- 
cient in  what  trespass  or  damage  soever  he  shall  re- 
ceive or  sustaine  by  lioggs,  goates  or  catell,  shall  be  his 
owne  loss  and  detriment,  And  also  if  it  shall  happen 
that  any  person  shall  hunt,  anie  of  the  said  horses, 
mares,  hoggs,  goates  or  catiell  that  shall  so  offend  and 
doe  them  harm  he  shall  make  satisfaction  for  any  of 
them,  that  shall  be  so  hurt  to  the  owners  of  them,  to 
be  recovered  within  any  court  of  justice  within  the 
collonie;  And  it  is  further  enacted,  That  where  any 
horses,  mares,  cattell  or  hoggs  shall  endamage  any  per- 
son for  want  of  such  ffence  as  aforesaid,  and  the  par- 
tie  damnified  do  wilfully  kill  or  otherwise  hurt  so  as  the 
cattail,  hoggs,  horses  or  mares  do  die  of  such  hurte, 
whether  by  doggs  sett  vppon  them  or  otherwise,  in  such 
case  the  owner  of  the  ground  shall  not  onelie  be  liable 
to  satisfie  the  value  of  such  horses,  mares,  hoggs  or 
cattell,  but  by  vertue  of  this  act  be  adjudged  to  satis- 
fie double  the  value  of  such  horses,  mares,  hoggs  or 
cattell  soe  killed  to  the  owner  of  them,  And  further  be 
it  enacted  that  where  the  ffence  shall  be  adjudged  suffi- 
cient, vizt.  ffoure  foot  and  a  halfe,  high  and  close  downe 
to  the  bottom,  that  in  case  any  damage  or  tresspass 
be  then  done  or  committed  to  any  person  haveing  such 
ffences,  by  either  horses,  mares,  hoggs,  goates  or  any 
other  cattell  whatsoever,  the  owners  of  such  horses, 
mares,  he.  shall  be  liable  to  make  satisfaction  for  their 
trespass  and  damage  to  the  person  injured  in  case  the 
ffence  he  found  by  two  honest  men  appointed  by  the 
next  com'rs.  to  be  sufficient. 


*  Compounded  of  act  V  of  March,  1642-3  (ante  pa.  244,)  and  act 
XV  of  October,  1646,  ante  page  332,  with  amendments. 


MARCH    1657-8— 9tli  OF  COMMONWEALTH.  459 

ACT  LV. 
No  blank  Warrants* 

[Tliis  aetis  taken  from  act  XXVII of  March  1642-3; 
ante  pa.  257.] 


ACT  LVI. 

Noe  Collonie  Servants.* 

BEE  it  hereby  enacted  and  confirmed  that  noe  per-  Servitude  for 
son  or  persons  whatsoever,  for  anie  offence  alreadie  ^f^688   ' 
comitted  shall  be  adjudged  to  serve  the  collonie  here- 
after. 


ACT  LVII. 

None  to  bee  compelled  to  resurvey  Land. 

[This  act  is  a  literal  transcript  from  act  XXXYIJ.I 
of  March,  1642-3,  ante  pa.  262.] 


ACT  LV1II. 

Holy  dates  in  commemoration  our  deliverance  from  Mas- 
sacres. 

BEE  it  enacted  and  confirmed  by  the  authorise  of  Holy  days. 
this  present  Grand  Assembly ,  That  the  two  and  twenti- 
eth day  of  Marchf  and  the  eighteenth  day  of  Aprill} 
be  yearly  kept  holie  in  comemoration  of  our  deliver- 
ance from  the  Indians  at  the  bloody  massacres  the  22d 
day  of  March,  1621  and  the  eighteenth  of  Aprill,  1644, 
And   that  the    ministers  of  everie    parish  give  notice 

*  This  act  seems  to  have  been  copied  from  act  XXIX  of  1642-3 
(ante  pa  259,)  except  that  the  words,  "  or  to  be  committed,"  in- 
serted in  that  act,  are  omitted  in  this. 

t  This  holy  day  appears  to  have  been  first  instituted  at  the  March 
session  1623-4  (see  ante  page  123,  act  4,)  and  the  observant!  of  it 
has  been  repeatedly  enjoined  since — See  ante  page  177,  2u2,  26  i. 

t  This  holy  day  was  first  instituted  at  the  February  session  1644-0 
See  act  IV,  ante  page  290 


J  GO 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA 


Old  Virgini- 
ans, privilege* 

of. 


there'of  to  the  parishoners  the  Sabboth  day  next  be 
fore. 


ACT  LIX. 

Old  Virginians  freed  from  Taxes.* 

IT  is  enacted  and  confirmed  by  the  authoritie  aforesaid, 
That  all  sach  persons  as  were  here  or  came  in  at  the 
last  coraeiog  in  of  Sir  Tho:  Yates, -j-  shall  be  exempted 
from  their  personal!  service  to  the  warrs  and  all  pub- 
Ji'que  charges,  ministers  duties  excepted,  not  exempt- 
ing their  {Families  (excepting- such  as  shall  be  implored 
iu  cheife.) 


ACT  LX. 

Concerning  tnkeing  awaie  of  boates. 

[This  net  agrees  verbatim  with  act  XLIII  of  March, 
1642-3,  except  that  the  word  "leave"  is  used  in  this 
act  in  the  place  of  "  license"  in  that,  and  the  word  "if" 
instead  of  "and'"  after  the  word  "authorized."  which 
occurs  but  once  in  the  act.] 


Prisoners  es- 
caping for 
want  of  syffi- 
cienl  pi  isons, 
the  courts  to 
be  liable  to  the 
sheriffs. 

Expense  of 
keeping  the 
Protector's 
prisoners, 
how  certified 
Xnd  paid. 


ACT  LXI. 

Pennalty  for  not  Building  Prisons. 

BEE  it  alsoe  enacted  and  confirmed  by  this  Gram. 
Assembly,  That  if  any  person  shall  happen  to  escape 
from  the  hands  or  custody  of  any  sherrifle  of  the 
several]  counties  respectively  for  want  of  a  sufficient 
prison  in  each  countie,  all  such  sherriffes  shall  find  his 
remedie  against  the  several! counties  which  shall  be  de- 
linquent in  the  building  of  prison ns,  Jlnd  it  is  alsoe  en~ 
acted  and  confirmed  that  the  said  sherrifles  shall  bring 
an  accompt  at  eyerie  Grand  Assembly  of  such  charges 
and  disbursements  as  are  occasioned  in  their  severall 


*  Taken  from  act  X  of  March,  1633-4,  ante  page  124 — Act  XL) 
of  February,  1881-3,  ante  page  172— Act  XXXV  II  of  September, 
Ifvi2.  ante  page  197 — and  act  XLII  of  March,  1642-3.  with  «ome 
variations. 

'  ;( tinted,"  in  all.  the  former  acts 


MARCH,  1657-8— 9th  OF  COMMONWEALTH.  461 

counties  by  keeping  the  Protector's  prisoners,  and  the 
said  disbursments  to  be  satisfied  out  of  the  publique 
charge. 


ACT  LXII. 

Quarter  Courts  settled.* 

BEE  it  hereby  enacted  and  confirmed  for  the  preven-  Q*r  courts 
lion  of  much  trouble  to  the  Governour  and  Council],  u""sof- 
and  charges  to  the  inhabitants  of  this  collonie  by  over 
long  attendance  on  their  suites  at  James  Cittie,  that  the 
quarter  courts  shall  beginne  as  followeth,  vizt. 

March  courte  to  beginne  the  20th  day  of  March,  if  Marcbterin 
it  be  not  Sonday,  if  it  be,  then  on  the  next  day  and  to 
continue  eighteen  daies  and  Sundayes  not   to  be  ac- 
compted  any  of  them. 

June  courte  to  beginne  vppon  the  flirst  day  in  June  Ju»c  teim 
in  case  it  bee   not  Sunday,  if  it  be,  then  on  the  next 
day  after  and  to  continue  tenn  dayes  and  Sundaies  not 
to  be  accompted  any  of  them. 

The  like  for  October   court  as  for  June  court,  The  Oct.  term, 
fourth  court  to  beginne  the  twentieth  da\  of  iVovem-  ?°y\te™; 
ber  if  it  be  not  Sundaie  ;  if  it  bee,  then  on  the  next  day  practice. 
following  to  contain    the    number  of  daies  as  March  Writs  to  ex- 
court  doth;  the  causes  of  suites  to  be  expressed  hi  the  pre?s  causeoC 

it  i  i  ii  •  •        i  action. 

writts  which  may  he  enlarged  by  petition  between  eve-  Defendant  to 

ry  arrests  and  returnes  of  the   writtes  ;  the  defendant  have  ln  ll;1)s 

to  have  ten  daies  time  to  provide  himself?;  No  arrests  ™°  ^except 

to  be  made  in  court,  except  for  the  following  court ;  the  foi  the  follow- 

writt  to  £oe  in  the  same  tenor  as  formerly,  The  defen-  mS  court. 

dant  vpon  the  return  of  the  writt  either  by  himst ■  i'e  or  y/\Us 

attorney  to  enter  his  appearance  in  a  booke  to  be  kept  Appearance. 

for  that  purpose,  And  also  to  put  in  his  answer  vnder  A»swer- 

his  hand  the  third  day  of  the  returnes  of  the  writts,  The  „ 

•  •■•  i  \      l      n\     i  i  .i  Petition 

petition  and  answer  to  be  tiled  and  remarne  m  the  ^e-  when  U)hr 
cretaries  office,  The  plaintiff  to  put  in  his  petition  vp-  filed, 
on  the  day  of  appearance  and  in  case  of  such  neglect  to  Non-sun 
be  nonsuited  and  the  defendants  costs  awarded  against 
him. 


"  «<>«*  act  l.v  of  March,  1642-3,  ante  pag 


462 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA. 


ACT  LXIII. 

Countie  Courts  Settled.* 

Terms  of  BEE  it  also  hereby  enacted  that  everie  county  court 

co'ty  courts,      respectively  shall    keep   their  courts    respectively  as 

formerly,   six  times   in  the   yeare,  and  to  beginne  on 

the  severall  daies  of  the  moneth  as  hath  bin   formerly 

vsed  and  is  hereafter  expressed,  vizt. 


Henrico  1st  Daie. 
Charles  Cittie  the  3d. 
James  Cittie  the  6th. 
Use  of  Wight  the  9th. 
Nanzemund  the  12th. 
Gloster  the  16th. 


Lower  Norfolke  the  15th* 
Eliza.  Cittie  the  18th. 
Warwick  the  21st. 
irorke  the  24th. 
Northampton  28th. 
New  Kent  28th. 


Courts  to  be 
hold  once  in 
every  two 
inonths  or  of- 
ten er  upon 
emergency. 
To  be  called 
co'ty.  courts, 
and  comm'rs. 
to  be  called] 
comm's.  of 
••o'ty.  courts, 
lurisdiction. 

Sums  under 
20s.  sterling 
■"oguizable 
before  a  sin- 
gle magis- 
trate, who 
may  commit 
to  prison  for 
non-perform- 
ance. 


Which  courts  are  to  be  held  onre  everie  two  months 
oroftener  if  emergent  occasion  shall  require,  and  shall 
be  called  by  the  name  of  countie  courtsf  and  the  co- 
missioners  to  be  stiled  bv  the  name  of  the  comissioiers 
of  the  countie  counts;  And  for  prevention  of  manie 
chargeable  suites  tending  to  the  molestation  and  trou- 
ble of  divers  poor  men,  for  pettie  and  triviall  debts,  It 
is  thought  jilt  and  enacted  by  this  Grand  Assembly,  That 
no  courts  of  justice  within  this  colionie  shall  proceed 
to  determine  or  adjudge  or  at  all  take  cognisance  of 
anie  suite  hereafter  to  be  commenced  for  or  concerning 
any  debt  vnder  the  value  of  20s.  sterling  or  two  hun- 
dred pounds  of  tobacco,  but  in  such  cases  the  next  ad- 
joining com'r.  to  summon  the  debtor  or  defendant  by 
his  warrant  before  him,  vpon  complaint  vnto  him  made, 
and  to  determine  the  same  by  order  in  writeing  vnder 
his  hand,  which  order  shall  be  bindeing,  and  in  case  of 
non-performance,  the  said  comissioner  is  authorized 
to  commit  to  prison  the  person  that  is  refractory  to 
such  order  as  aforesaid. 


*  See  act  LVT  of  March,  1642-3,  ante  page  272. 

t  Before    the  act  of  March,  1642-3,  ai  45,  (ante   page  304,)  only  requited  a 
grand  jurv  ai  Murcli  and  MicUummer  court! . 


4t, 


ACT  LXXI1. 

Confirmation  of  Indians'1  Lund. 

WHEREAS  many  complaints  have  bin  brought  to   Preamble 
this  Assembly  touchinge  wrong  done  to  the  Indians, 
in  takeing  away  their  land  and  forceing  them  into  such 
narrow   streights   and   places  that  they  cannot  subsist 
cither  by  planting  or  hunting,  and  for  that  it  may  be 
feared  they   may  be  justly  driven  to  despaire  &  to  at- 
tempt some  desperate    course    for  themselves,  which 
inconveniencies    though  they  have  bin  endeavored  to 
be  remedied  by  former  acts  of  Assembly  made  to  the 
same    purpose,  Yet    notwithstanding  manie   English 
doe  still    intrench  vpon  the  said  Indians'  land,  which 
this   Assembly    conceiveing  to  be  contrary  to  justice, 
and   the   true  intent  of  the  English  plantation  in  this 
country,  whereby  the  indians  might  by  all  just  and  faire 
waies  be  reduced  to  civillity  and   the    true   worship  of  Indians  to 
God,  have  therefore  thought  fitt.  to  ordeine  and  enact,  hold  the  laa.i 
and   bee  it  hereby  ordained  and  enacted,  That  all  the  j)l"^t.'s'"W,„,i 
Indians  of  this  collonie  shall  and  may  hold  and  keep  no  person  to 
those  seates  of  land  which  they  now  have,  and  that  no  s,;Ull>  <>n  tha' 
person  or    persons  whatsoever  be  suffered  to  intrench  ^"^ithout 
or  plant  vpon  such  places  as  the  said  Indians  claime  or  leave  from 
desire  vntill  full  leave  from  the  Governour  and  Coun-  th('  zov-  anri 

•  ii  i         r        i         i  -»r         i  •  l  councilor 

c.\\\  or  com  rs.  for  the  place;    let  this  act  not  to  be  ex-  ,.,„„,„,,  sion. 
tended  to  prejudice  those  English  which  are  now  seat-  ers  of  the 
ed  with  the  Indians'  formor  consent  vnles  vppon  fur-  i,lace' 


10* 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


Proviso. 
Responsibility 
of  commissi- 
oners. 

Indians  to  be 
assisted  in 
removing  to 

vacant  hauls. 

Not  to  sell 
their  lands 
except  at  q:r. 
courts. 
Settlers  near 
the  Pamunkies 
&.  Chickaho- 
minies  recall- 
ed. 

Permission  to 
Indians  to 
hunt. 

Exception. 
Patents  con- 
trary to  this 
act,  void  ; 
and  none  to 
be  valid 
which  in- 
cro aches  on 
Ind's'  lands. 


tlier  examination  before  the  Grand  Assemblie  cause 
shall  he  found  for  so  doeing,  And  the  said  com'rs.  shall 
be  accomptable  before  the  Governourand  Councill  and 
the  Grand  Assembly  if  any  wrong  or  injurie  be  done 
to  the  Indians  contrary  to  the  intent  of  this  act,  And 
be  it  further  enacted,  That  the  Indians  as  either  now 
or  hereafter  shall  want  seates  to  live  on,  or  shall  desire 
to  remove  to  any  places  void  or  vntaken  vpp  they  shall 
be  assisted  therein,  and  order  granted  them,  for  con- 
firmation thereof,  And  no  Indians  to  sell  their  lands 
but  at  quarter  courtes,  And  that  those  Eii^lish  which 
are  lately  gone  to  seate  neare  the  Pamunkies' and  the 
Chichnminyes  on  the  north  side  of  Pamunkie  river 
shall  be  recalled  and  such  English  to  choose  other 
seates  else  where,  and  that  the  Indians  as  by  a  former 
act  was  granted  them,  shall  have  free  liberty  of  hunt- 
ing in  the  woods  without  the  English  fenced  planta- 
tions, these  places  excepted  between  Yorke  river  and 
James  river  and  between  the  Black  water  and  the  Ma- 
nakin  towne  and  James  river,  and  noe  pattent  shall  be 
adjudged  valid  which  hath  lately  passed  or  shall  pass 
contrary  to  the  sense  of  this  act,  Nor  none  to  be  of 
force  which  shall  intrench  vppon  the  Indians'  lands  t© 
their  discontent  without  expresse  order  for  the  same. 


Lapsed  laud 
not  to  be  en- 
tered without 
an  order  from 
the  gov.  and 
council. 


First  patentee 
may  take  up 
the  like  quan- 
tity elsewhere. 


Not  to  preju- 
dice vested 
rights. 


ACT  LXXI1I. 

Deserted  Lands  to  be  taken  vpp  by  Order  of  Court. 

BEE  it  enacted  by  this  present  Grand  Assembly  thai 
noe  pattent  of  land  shall  hereafter  pass  vppon  the 
pretence  that  the  land  is  deserted  for  want  of  planting 
within  the  time  of  three  yecres  vnles  an  order  be  first 
graunted  by  the  Governour  and  Councill  for  that  se- 
cond pattent,  whereby  the  land  is  adjudged  soe  to  bee 
deserted  :  But  this  act  shall  not  extend  to  forfeit  the 
rights  of  the  first  pattent  adjudged  deserted,  but  thai 
the  owner  of  those  rights  may  take  vp  the  like  quan- 
tity in  any  other  place  or  places  though  not  the 
same,  neither  shall  the  first  petitioner  for  any  land  de- 
serted be  denied  to  have  the  first  grant,  and  this  act 
shall  not  be  construed  to  extend  to  any  land  formerly 
deserted  and  allreadie  granted  and  seated  by  ano- 
ther. 


MARCH,  1657-8— 9th  OF  COMMONWEALTH.  46lJ 

ACT  LXXIV.  ■*£  of  *™ 

shillings  a 

Concerning  the  Dutch  Trade.  hhd.forto-- 

°  bacco  raised 

BEE  it  enacted  by  this  present  Grand  Assembly  that  ^?^eof  ■ 
all  tobacco  raised  by  sale  of  goods  brought  into  this  fa. shipped 
coontrey  by  Dutchmen   the  owners   thereof  shall  be  in  Dutch  ves 
liable  to  pay  the  custom  of  tenne  shillings  per  hogshead  ^J,^' 
for  what  is  shipt  in  any  Dutch  vessell  or  in  any  other  part  of  Ame 
vessell  whatsoever  bound  for  any  part  of  America  or  rica 
else  where,  excepting  such  English  vessells  as  are  di-  ^English  * 
rectly  bound  for  England,  and  any  person  or  persons  vessels  bound 
whatsoever  are  to  make  oath,  if  it  be  required,  what   pir^tly,t0 
goods  are  brought  in  and  what  quantity  of  tobacco  they  oatiAo  be 
shall  shipp  from  tirce  to  time  in  any  vessel  whatsoever,  taken. 
And  the  comissioners  of  the  severall  countie  courts  re-  Dutyot  co,n; 

,  ,  .  i        .    ,  missioners  ol 

speetively   are  to  take  good  care  to  prevent  deceit  here-  county, 
in,  And  that  those  Dutch  repaire  to  the  governour,  or  How  the  en- 
whom  he  shall  appointe  to  give  a  just  accompt  thereof  ^^  b,; 
vpon  the  pennaltie  of  double  the  quantitie  soe  shipped  Penalty  foi 
if  any  deceit  be  found  of  what  shall  be  justly  due  to  fraud- 
this  act,  And  this  act  is  further  explained  that  for  the  tend  to^aii 
custom  of  tenne  shillings  per  hogshead  be  as  well  vn-  foreigners,  *. 
derstood  of  all  forreigners  as  of  the  Duch  nation,  and  the  dutief 

r  ,  ,       e^     °  '  conferred  on 

•'onierred  on  the  uovernour. 


governor. 


ACT  LXXV. 

Comissoners  to  Ordaine  Parishes. 

BEE  it  enacted  by  this  Grand  Assembly,  That  it  shall  Co'ty  court- 
be  lawfull  for  the  comissioners  of  the  severall  counties  ™"?^  oft 
not  yet  laid  out  into  parishes,  with  the  consent  of  the 
inhabitants  thereof  to  devide  their  counties  into  par- 
ishes as  by  the  major  part  of  the  said   counties  shall 
be  agreed. 


parishes. 


ACT  LXXV1. 

Encouragement  for  Staple  Comodilies. 

FOR  the  better  encouragement  of  the  inhabitants  for  ).',e 

•  i     •  <>  i  i-  •  •  l-  ,       .  for 

the   makeing   of    staple   comodities   in   this   colonic,  ll(,|)s ,,,  otl 

Bee   it   enacted  by  this  present  Grand  Assembly  that  staple  com 

what  person  or  persons  soever  shall  at  any  time  here-  JJjJJjJJj^ 


miumi 

for  silk,  11  ax 

hops  or  othei 


«"«'  LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 

after  make  in  this  collonie  so  much  silke,  flax,  hopps 
or  any  other  staple  comoditie  (except  tobacco)  as  h 
worth  two  hundred  pounds  sterling,  or  English  wheate 
to  the  value  of  five  hundred  pounds  sterling  in  one 
yeare  and  exporte  the  same  or  cause  the  same  to  be  ex- 
ported, or  shall  first  make  two  tunne  of  wine  raized  out 
of  a  vineyard  made  in  this  collonie  shall  have  given 
him  by  this  countrey  for  an  encouragement  ten  thou- 
sand pounds  of  Virginia  tobacco. 

aates  of  arti-  Wheate  valued  at  five  shilling  per  bushell. 

Silke  at  twenty  shillings  per  pound, 
fflax  at  six  pence  per  pound. 
Hopps  at  twenty  shillings  per  hundred. 

vaiaedbv  What  other  staple  comodities  shall  be  .raised  to  br 

,,sen1!,]?  valued  by  the  Assembly. 


ACT  LXXVII. 

Against  False  SiiUiarih 

[This  act  is  taken  verbatim  from  act  II  of  Novem- 
ber, 1654,  ante  pa.  391.] 


ACT  LXXVIII. 

Against  Imploying  Indians  with  Gunns. 

[This  is  a  mere  transcript  of  act  III  of  November. 
1654,  ante  pa.  391.] 


ACT  LXX1X. 

Xorthampton  Commissioners  to  take  acknowledgment 
of  Indians'  Lands. 

[This  is  a  literal  transcript  of  act  IV  of  Nov.  1654 
ante  pa.  391.] 


ACT  LXXX. 

How  Masters  of  Shipps  to  cdrrie  themselves  here. 

[This  is  a  transcript  of  act  V  of  November,  1654, 
ante  pa.  392,  with  the  omission  of  the  words  "  at  their 
pcrill."  at  the  end  of  the  act.] 


MARCH,  1657-9— 9th  OF  COMMONWEALTH.  471 

ACT  LXXX1. 

Concerning  the  Election  of  Shcrriffes. 

[This  is  a  literal  transcript  of  act  VI  of  November. 
1654,  ante  pa.  395.] 


ACT  LXXXH. 

For    avoiding    Charge    and    Trouble  to  Creditors  ii\ 
Seeking  their  debts. 

[This  act  is  taken  verbatim  from  act  I,  of  March, 
1654-5,  (ante  pa.  409,)  except  that  in  thp  5th  line,  the 
word  "  several1'  is  used  in  this  act  before  the  word 
"  person,"  where  "any"  is  used  in  that  act.] 


ACT   LXXXIII. 

For  preservation  of  the  Peace  with  the  Indians  by  En'- 
tertaining  Indians  without  Leave. 

[This  act  consists   of  the  2d  section  only  of  act  II 
ef  March,  1654-5,  ante  pa.  410.] 


ACT  LXXXIV. 

Concerning  Ordinaries  and  Ferries. 


•a 


[This  is  an  exact  copy  of  act  V  of  March,  1654-5, 
(ante  pa.  411,)  except  that  in  this  act  the  words  "their" 
is  introduced  before  the  word  "  ordinaries,"  which  is 
not  in  the  other.] 


ACT   LXXXV. 

Irish  Servants  without  Indentures. 

[This  act  is  substantially  the  same  as  act  VI  of 
March,  1654-5,  ante  pa.. 411,)  except  that  at  the  end 
of  the  act  these  words  are  added,  "and  all  aliens  to  be 
included  irt  this  act." 


472 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA* 

Articles  at  the  Surrender  of  the  Countrie. 

[These  were  published  ante  pa.  363  &  365;  that  ar- 
rangement being  most  agreeable  to  chronological  or- 
der.] 


ACT  LXXXVI. 

■  In  Act  of  Indempnitie  mad&utt  the  Surrender  of  tht 

Countrey. 

[This  act  is  published,  ante  pa.  367.] 


ACT  LXXXVII. 

Thefforme  of  PattentsJ* 

Patents  to  be  That  all  patents  be  drawne  vpp  in  a  fitt  forme  re- 
rrcTcmdio-the  ,atein£  t0  lhe  Present  government,  And  that  till  a  seale 
vemment; and  may  be  procured  the  Governour  and  Secretarie  for  the 
signed  by  the  time  being  signeing  the  said  pattents,  they  shall  be  ac- 
compted  vallid  and  authentique  in  all  courtes  of  jus- 
tice as  any  patents  formerly  granted  vnder  the  collo- 
ney  seale,  And  the  like  for  alf things  that  hath  vsually 
passed  vnder  the  seale. 


gov.  and  sec'y 
till  a  seal  be 
provided. 


ACT  LXXXVIII. 

Against  Fraudulent  Dccds.j- 

No  estate  in  BEE  it  enacted  and  confirmed,  That  no  personn  or 

ornchattekto     Person*  whatsoever  shall  pass  over  by  conveyance  or 

otherwise  any  parte  of  his  estate,  whether  lands  or  goods 


f  This  act  was  probably  one  of  the  articles  of  the  provisional  go- 
vernment, adopted  in  April,  1652,  (ante  pa.  371,  372.)  It  appears 
from  an  examination  of  the  books  in  the  Register's  office,  which 
formerly  were  in  the  office  ofthe  secretary,  that  many  patents  issued 
under  the  commonwealth's  governors,  long  before  the  date  of  this 
act. 

t  Altered  from    act  IV  of  December,  1656,  ante  page  417.— See 
also  act  XII  of  March,  1642  3,  (ante   page  248,)    for  registering 

mortgages.  " 


MARCH   1657-8— 9th  OF  COMMONWEALTH. 


473 


or  chattells,  whereby  his  creditors  not  haveing  notice 
thereof  might  be  defrauded  of  their  just  debts,  vnles 
such  conveyance  or  other  deeds  be  (first  acknowledged 
before  the  Govemour  and  Councill  or  at  the  monethly 
courtes  Si  be  registred  in  a  booke  for  that  purpose, 
within  six  monthes  after  such  alienation,  And  whoso- 
ever shall  make  over  or  alienate  any  part  of  his  estate 
otherwise  then  is  before  expressed,  the  same  shall  not 
bee  accompted  nor  allowed  valid  in  lawe,  And  the  said 
conveyance  with  acknowledgment  made  not  to  be  held 
valid  in  lawe  vntill  fowr  monthes  after  the  said  acknow- 
ledgment, in  which  time  the  creditor  may  have  notice 
to  make  his  objection  against  the  same,  if  hee  shall 
have  cause  therefore,  or  anie  other  personn  who  may 
have  made  to  him  a  former  conveyance  of  the  said 
estate. 


pass  unless 
the  convey- 
ance be  ac- 
knowledged 
in  court,  and 
registered 
within  six 
months. 
Alienations 
otherwise 
made,  not 
valid  ; 

Nor  shall 
such  convey- 
ance, with 
acknowledg- 
ment, be  valid, 
till  4  mouths 
after  the 
acknowledg- 
ment 


ACT  LXXXIX. 

Sealed  Barrells.* 

BEE  it  hereby  enacted  and  confirmed,  That  the  co- 
missioners  of  everie  monethly  courte  respectively  shall 
seale  all  barrells  brought  vnto  them,  when  they  are 
therevnto  required  with  the  marke  V(\  which  barrells 
are  to  containe  ffive  bushells  Whinchester  measure  that 
is  to  say  fourty  gallons.  And  all  barrells  soe  sealed  to 
be  allowed  and  noe  other,  vnder  the  pennaltie  of  for- 
feiture of  fortie  pounds  of  tobacco  for  everie  time  such 
an  vnsealed  barrell  is  vsed.  And  likewise  for  bushells 
the  aforesaid  pennaltie,  all  persons  whatsoever  being 
herevnto  required  to  take  notice  of  this  act,  and  ac- 
cordingly to  provide. 


Comm  is.  ol 
monthly  courts 
to  seal  barrels. 

Seal. 

Contents. 
Penalty  for 
using  unseal- 
ed barrels. 

Bushel*. 


ACT  XC. 

English  Weights  and  Measures. 

[This  act  is  the  same  as  act  XII  of  October,  Jfi4«;; 
ante  pa.  331.] 


.•  act  XXXV!  of  Feb,  1981.2  (ante  page  170)— Act  XXXlf  »l 
Pept.  1632,  (ante  page  195)— Act  Lot'  March,  1642-3,  ante  page  26$ 

3  M 


474 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA. 


ACT  XCI. 


Trial  by  JW> 
secured  to  par- 
ties who  desire 
it. 

How  pit.  k 
defend'lto  pro- 
ceed. 


Proviso. 

Compensation 
to  jurors. 


Their  de- 
ate  aim  r. 


Juries  on  Petition  to  be  graunied.* 

BEE  it  alsoe  enacted,  That  if  either  plaintiff  or  de- 
fendant shall  desire  the  verdict  of  a  jurie  for  the  deter- 
mination of  any  suite  depending  in  any  of  the  courtes 
of  this  collonie,  hee  or  they  shall  signifie  therein  their 
desire  by  petition  vnder  his  or  their  hands  vnto  the  said 
courtes,  before  the  same  cause  had  any  hearing  vpon 
the  day  of  tryall  :  if  it  be  the  desire  of  the  plaintiff, 
and  their  petitions  to  be  filed  in  the  secretaries  office, 
or  with  the  clerke  of  the  monethly  courte,  And  if  the 
defendant  shall  desire  it,  hee  or  they  shall  signifie  the 
same,  vppon  the  enterie  of  his  appearance  in  the  office 
which  shall  be  inserted  in  a  booke  to  be  kept  in  the  of- 
fice for  that  purpose  ;  Mlwaies  provided  that  the  cause 
depending  be  proper  for  a  jurie  :  And  bee  it  further 
enacted,  that  fall  such,  either  plaintiff  or  defendant, 
who  shall  desire  jurors  to  decide  their  causes  shall  pay    with  slight  ya 
►iafiomi  in  the  phraseology 


MARCH,  1667-8— 9th  OF  COMMOISWKALTHw  4:5 

of  money   debts  being  not  pleadable,    vizt.  from  tiie  except  those 

26th  of  March,  1643,  to  the  10th  of  Sbr.  1649,  And  SJjJS&'fc 

alsoe  all  money   debts  which  are  or  shall  be  made  in  1649,  during 

England   for  goods  imported  to  this  collonie,  But  no  a  former  pro- 
other  shall  be  pleadable  in  this  collonie. 


ACT  XCI1I. 

The  election  of  Burgesses.* 

BEE  it  enacted  by  this  present   Grand  Assembly,      Election  ot 

That  all  Burgesses  shall  be  summoned  and  elected  in  Borgesses— 

manner  hereafter  expressed,  (that  is  to  say,)  That  the  time  &  place 

severall   and  respective  sherriffes  shall    within  tenne  of,  to  be  noti- 

daies  after  the  receiptc  of  such  writtes  as  they  shall  re-  fie(1  b^,the 
ceive  to  that  purpose  cause  the  same  to  be  published  & 
by  giveing  notice  of  the  same  from  house  to  house  by 
the  sherrilFe  or  his  deputie  to  all  persons  intenested      When  and 

in  elections,  which  hee  is  to  do  ex  officio  and  then  and  where  held, 
there  alsoe  to  publish  and  declare  the  certaine  daie  of 
the   weeke  and   moneth    for  chooseing  Burgesses  to 
serve  in  the  Assembly,  for  all  accustomed  places  in  the 

severall  counties,   and  parishes  respectively,  That  at  Sberifftoat- 

the  day  and  place  of  election  the  sherrifFe  shall  take  t.'.."u        , 

view  of  the  said  election,  and  before  the  sitting  of  the  how  to'make 

Assemblye  to  make  returne  to  the  secretaries  office  at  return. 

James  Cittie  of  the  persons  then  and  there  elected  by  ^"j^f 

subscriptions  of  the   major  parte  of  the    hands  of  the  Qualifications 

ellectors,  And  that  the  sherriff  who  shall  wittinglie  or  of  i''-rtons  t0 

williuglie   make  any  false  returne  or  neglect  iiis  duty  R^t  of  suf- 

shall  incurr  the  pennaltie  of  ten  thousand  pounds  of  to-  fvage  to  beex- 

bacco :  That  the  persons  who  shall  bee  elected  to  serve  •;,","lse  lll).v  a11 

in  Assembly  shall  be  such  and  no  other  then  such  as  sidine  in  the 

are  persons  of  knowne  integrity,  of  good  conversation  colony. 
and  of  the  age  of  one  and  twenty  yeares,  And  all  per- 
sons  inhabitting    in  this  collonie  that  are  freemen  to 

have  their  votes  in  the  election  of  Burgesses,  Provided  „ 

they  do  not  in  tumultous  manner,  but  fairly  give  their  tiu,;r  vot,. 
votes  by  subscriptions  as  aforesaid. 

'This  art  is  composed  "of,  act  VII  of  March,  1654-5,  (ante  pa»r 
411,)  as  amended  by  act  \VI  of  March  1655-6,  ante  page  4o:i.— • 
So  much  of  the  former  act  as  restricted  the  right  of  suffrage  to 
"  house  keepers,  whether  fifee-bohlers,  lease-holders  or  otherwise 
tenants''  and  to  om  persOfl  in  ;i  family,  being  omitted  in  this  net, 
and  tlir.-  provisions  of  the  latter  net  which  rwfrttfrt  thf>  vticient'itfyfp 
of  ;ill  freemen  voting   being  retainer! 

• 


476  LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 

ACT  XCIV. 

Concerning  Indians. 

[This  act  is  copied  from  act  I  of  March  10th,  1655-6 
(ante  pa.  393)  with  the  transposition  of  a  few  words 
only,  which  do  mot  vary  the  sense;  and  except  that 
this  act  stops  at  the  words  "  alienable  by  them,"  in 
the  3d  line  of  the  3d  section,  pa.  396.] 


ACT  XCV. 

Northampton  County  to  make  Lawes. 

[This  act  is  taken  verbatim  from  act  II  of  March, 
1655-6,  ante  pa.  396.] 


ACT  XCVI. 

Encouragement  for  Markett  Places.* 

Merchants  to        BEE  it  enacted,  that  if  any  countie  or  particular  per- 
be  encourag-     gQn  gjlajj  settje  any  p|ace  whether  the  merchants  shall 

willingly  come  for  the  sale  or  bringing  of  goods  such 
men  shall  bee  lookt  vppon  as  benefactors  to  the 
publique. 


ACT  XCV1I. 

Criminall  Causes,  where  to  be  tried. 

[This  act  contains  the  enacting  part,  only,  of  act 
V  of  March,  1655-6,  (ante  pa.  397,)  omitting  the  pre- 
amble.] 

•  This  act  consists  of  the  proviso,  only,  of  act  III  of  March, 
1655-6,  (ante  page  397,)  which  act  repealed  one  of  the  preceding 
session,  for  regulating  trade  and  establishing  ports,  and  places  fotf 
markers.     See  act  VIII  of  March,  1654-6,  ante  page  412 


MARCH,  1657-8— 9th  OF  COMMONWEALTH. 
ACT  XCVIII. 


477 


Places  of  Tr tails  and  Appcales.* 

WHEREAS   many  appeales  brought  are  meerly 
delatorie  and  for  poor  and  inconsiderable  causes  where- 
by men  are  defrauded  of  the  justice  they  sue  for,  the 
court  tacitly  taxt  from  whence  they  appeale  and  greate 
charge  accrueing  the  suite,  Therefore  bee  it  enacted 
by   this  Grand  Assembly  that  all   suites  and  causes 
between   partie    and  partie   of   what  valewe   soever, 
not  concerning  life  or  member  be  tried  by  the  countie 
courte  and  not  by  the  quarter  courte,  vnles  they  ex- 
ceed sixteen  hundred  pounds  of  tobacco  and  caske  or 
sixteen  pounds  sterling,  vppon  paine  of  ffive  hundred 
pounds  of  tobacco  to  be  paid  to  the  partie  grieved,  and 
thatnoe  appeales  from  the  countie  courtes  to  the  quar- 
ter courtes  nor  from  the  quarter  courtes  to  Assemblies 
vnder  the  same  value,  and  damages  vppon  appeales,  to  be 
awarded  by  the  judges  of  appeales  and  the  appellants 
forthwith  to  putt  in  securitie  to  pay  what  damages  shall 
be  awarded  against  them  :  Provided  the  former  act  au- 
thorizing to  what  valew  comissioners  are  to  try,  be  and 
remaine  in  full  force  and  vertue,  any  thing  contained  to 
the  contrarie  notwithstanding.     Vnto  this  act  is  added 
by  the  authoritie  aforesaid  that  noe  person  whatsoever, 
shall  be  arrested  vnto  the  quarter  courte  at  James  Cittie 
by  writt  from  the  office,  except  the  debt  amount  vnto 
sixteen  hundred  pounds  of  tobacco  vpon  the  pennaltie 
of  ffive  hundred  pounds  of  tobacco  fine,  excepting  such 
men  that  remoove  themselves  from  the  county  where 
they  made  their  debt  vnto  some  remote  countey. 


Jurisdiction  oV 
county  courts 
final  for  all 
sums  under 
1600  lbs.  of 
fob.  or  £  16 
sterl. 

Penalty  for  su- 
ing otherwise. 
Appeals  over 
those  sums  al- 
lowed to  q'r. 
courts  &.  as- 
sembly. 
Damages. 
Security. 
Not  to  affect 
jurisdiction 
of  single  mamte  posed  of  for  ammunition  for  the  countie  where  the  of- 

fence shall  be  comitied. 


ACT  CI. 


Preamble 


All  the  coun- 
ties to  be  di- 
vided into  pa- 
rishes. 

Farish  levy, 
annually 


Ministers  and  Parishes  Settled.\ 

WHEREAS  there  are  manie  places  destitute  of  mi- 
nisters and  like  so  to  continue,  the  people  content 
without  paying  the  accustomed  dues,  which  should  pro- 
cure those  that  should  teach  and  instruct  them,  soe 
that  by  this  improvident  saveing,  they  loose  the  great- 
est benefitt  a  Christian  can  have  by  heareing  the  word 
and  the  vse  of  the  blessed  sacraments,  Therefore  bee  it 
enacted  by  this  Grand  Assembly  that  all  counties  not 
yet  layd  out  into  parishes  shall  be  devided  into  parish- 
es the  next  county  court  after  publication  hereof,  and 
that  all  tithable  persons  in  everie  parish  respectively  in 
the  vacancy  of  their  ministers  pay  ffifteen  pounds  of 
tobacco  per  pole  yeerly,  and  that  tobacco  be  putt  in 

*  This  actagrces  substantially  with  act  VIII  of  Mar-h,  1655-6  (ante 
page  399,)  except  that  the  penalty  is  increased  in  this  act,  and  tht? 
last  clause  of  that  is  omitted. 

t  From  aet   IX  of  March,  1655-6,  ?nte  page  899,  with  emend 

inrnt': 


MARCH,  1657-tf— 9th  OF  C COMMONWEALTH.  479 

the  hands  of  the  churchwardens  of  the  severall  parish- 
es, who  are  to  ffive  securitie  to  the  vestrey  for  the  dis-   How  aild  b-v 

.  .       .P      ,        „.  ,  r        ,       i     •  i  i-  c         whom  appro- 

posemg  of  it,   In  the  rarst  place  lor  the  building  oi  a  priatea. 
parish  church,  and  afterwards  the  surplusage  (if  anie 
bee)  go  to  the  purchaseing  of  a  gleabe  and  stock  for 
the  next  minister  that  shall  be  settled  there. 


ACT  CII. 

Concerning  Administrations  and  Administrators  * 

WHEREAS  comissions  ^f  administrations  are  sud-  Preamble 
denly  obtained   and  the  estates  as  suddenly  disposed 
of  vnder   pretence    of  greatest    creditor    or    next    of 
kinne  whereby  often  times  they  that  are  really  so,  the 
one  is  defrauded  of  his  just  debt,  and  the  other  debar- 
ed  of  his  right  and  interest,  the  estate  being  imbezilled 
before  either  can  have   notice  of  his  right  OT  interest,  No  ad  minis- 
Therefore  bee  it  enacted  by  this  present  Grand  Assem-  Nations  to  be 
Lly  that  no  administration  be  confirmed  until  the  third  aft" /the  3d 
courte  be   past  except  to  the  widdowe  or  child,  And  court,  except 
then  suddenly  to  be  granted  vppon  her  request  or  the  to  the  wi^°w 
next  of  kinne,  And    for  takeing  care  of  the  decedents  Estate    in 
estate  vntill  the  lime  above  litnittet),  be  referred  to  the  meantime, 
co'iii-sioners  of  the  countii   where  the  decedent  died,  h*?w  Preserv* 
That  the  estate  in  case  of  widow  or  kinne  to  be  prais-  To  be  ap- 
od   as    formerly  by   men  vpon  oath  appointed  by  the  praised  and 
court  and  the  administrator  to  pay  the  vallue  of  the  an-  *dm  r  liablr 

■     *                                             *  tor  valu6 

praisement  and  noe  further;  but  in  case  of  no  kinne,  when  to  be 

then  the  estate  to  be  sold  at  an  outcry,  where  there  is  sold  at  auc- 

not  sufficient  assetts,  if  the   creditors  shall  require  it ;  Qrd'r   f 

That  all  debts  that  are  brought  in  and  presented  may  ing  debts, 

be  paied  according  to  priori  tie  in  lawe ;  that  none  have  Quietus, 

their  quietus  est  vnder  a  year  and  a  day  after  contir-  aide"^3"* 

mation  of  the  administration,  If  anie  administrator  be  Surplus, 

of  no  kinne  and  have  assetts,  that  all  the  estate  left  af-  where  no  km, 

ter  debts  paid,  bee  imployed  in  the  countey  where  he  10W  app  ie 
lived  for  setting  vp  of  Manufactors, and  other  publique 

vses,  The  administrator  being  paid  for  his  reasonable  CommsVm* 
charge  and  paines, 

.  ;ikc  n  hum  art  \  of  March  1665-6,  ante  page 4;    indi- 

rectly vpon  the  penalty  of  fiive  thousand  pound.-,  of  to- 

The  laws  concerning  attorn  ies  have,  within  a  few  years,  undergone 
various  alterations;  In  March"  1642-3)  (ante  page  275.)  an  act  passed 
(or  licensing  them,  and  limttting  iheii  fees  ;  in  November  1(545,  (ante 
page  H'i'2,)  all  mei cenar j  aifornies  were  expelled  from  office  ;  in  March, 
1645-6  (ante  page  313.)  thf  act  of  1642-;i,  was  rc|  paled,  and  the  act 
of  1645  made  perpetual  ;  in  November.  1647;  (ante  ;,a  H'''e- 

or  persons,    If  either  pit.  or  defend't  desire  it  shall  hale  vioTat  i 

make  oath,  That  he  neither  directly  or  indirectly  is  a  this  act 
breaker  of  the  act  aforesaid. 


ACT  CXIII. 

Concerning  Huie  and  Cries. 

WHEREAS  buy  and  cries  after  ruunaway  servants 
hath  been  much  neglected  to  the  greate  damage  and 
loss  of  the  inhabitants  of  this  colloney  Bee  it  therefore 
enact  d  and  confirmed  by  the  authoritie  of  this  present 
Grand  Assembly,  that  all  such  buy  and  cries  shall  be 
signed  either  by  the  Governour  or  some  of  the  Coun- 
cil], or  vnder  the  hand  of  some  eom'r.  nameing  the 
coimtie  where  the  said  com'r.  lives,  and  the  same  shall 
be  conveyed  from  house  to  house  with  all  convenient 
speed  according  as  the  direction  thereof  expresseth  : 
And  every  com'r.  of  each  county  vnto  whose  house 
by  this  meanes  the  said  huy  and  cry  shall  come  shall 
then  date  and  subscribe  the  same,  And  the  master  of 
everie  house  that  shall  make  default  in  the  speedy  con- 
veyance of  any  such  huies  and  cries  shall  for  everie 
such  default  forfeite  and  pay  vnto  the, owners  of  any 
such  ruunawaie  as  the  said  hues  and  cries  shall  men- 
tion, one  hundred  pounds  of  tobacco,  and  where  the 
said  ruunawaie  servant  is  found  he  shall  be  apprehend- 
ed anil  >ent  from  constable  to  constable  vntill  such 
runnawaie  or  runnawayes  shall  be  delivered  to  his  or 
theire  master  or  mistresse  and  if  any  neglect  can  be 
proved  ag;iin»t  the  constable  bee  to  be  fmed  three  hun- 
dred and  ftftie  pounds  of  tobacco. 


fine  andery 
how  issncii 
against  runo* 
wav  servants 


How  execut 
cd. 


Duly  of  cotu- 
iiiis^ioners. 

Penalty  on 
masters  of 
houses  for 
neglect  in 
the  execution 
of  the  pre- 
cept. 

Runaway,  if 
apprehended 
to  he  sent 
hack  by  con 
stable. 

Penalty  for 

neglect 


ACT  CXIV. 

lino  long  Bil/s  and  Judgments  arc  Pleadable.* 

WHEREAS    the    nature    of  our  trade  of  Virgi-   Preamble 
iia    in    respect    of  our    present    comodities    and   the 


>m  actl  <>f  November,  1664,  ante  page  390,  with  amendment! 


484 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


iNo  bills, 
bonds,  judg- 
m'ts  or  other 
engagements 
recoverable 
after  5  years 
from  the  date. 

Execution 
not  to  issue 
on  a  judgm't 
after  a  year 
and  a  day, 
without  a 
sci  i     acias. 
Coininetjqe- 
meiit  of  act. 
Debtor  being 
ab    ni, 
limitation  not 
to  run. 
Further  time 
for  proseeut-  . 
inp  debts  3 
vears  due. 


greate  distance  of  our  habitations  enforceth  vs  to  en- 
gage by  bills,  bonds  and  judgements,  and  other  write- 
ings  vpou  payment  and  discharge  whereof  either  in 
part  or  in  whole  the  debtor  is  often  constrained  to  ac- 
cept of  receipts  and  employ  other  men  therein,  where- 
by manie  times  the  said  bills,  bonds,  judgments  and 
writeings  remaine  and  lie  out,  and  are  not  taken  vp 
or  delivered  in,  or  the  receipt  lost,  or  the  parties  or 
wittnessesdead,  soe,  thalthose debts  are  againe  demand- 
ed or  recovered  often  times  which  were  before  justly 
paid  and  acquitted  ;  for  remedie  whereof  Bee  it  en- 
acted and  confirmed  by  the  authoritie  aforesaid,  That 
no  bills,  bonds  or  judgments  or  any  other  engagement 
of  debt  be  of  anie  force  or  recoverable  ffive  yeares 
after  the  date  thereof,  And  that  no  execution  be  taken 
outvpon  anie  judgment  after  a  yea  re  and  one  daie  from 
the  date  of  anie  such  judgment  without  a  scire  facias 
to  warne  the  party  to  the  court  against  whom  the  said 
judgment  shall  att  any  time  happen  to  be  granted,  and 
this  act  to  begin  and  bee  of  force  the  ffirst  daie  of  June 
1^58,  Provided  if  the  debtor  absent  himstlfe,  and  de- 
parts the  country,  That  then  dureing  such  his  depar- 
ture it  shall  not  bee  reckoned  nor  accompted  anie  part 
of  the  said  ffive  yeares,  and  all  debts  haveing  been  three 
veares  due  or  more  to  be  still  pleadable  vutill  the  ffirst 
of  June,  1659  and  not  after. 


Limitation  of 
recovery  of 
olerks  and 
.^hen  iffs'    fees, 
and  of  public 
and  county 
levies. 
Exception!!. 


ACT  CXV. 

IIozo  long  ff ccs  and  Levies  are  recoverable, 

BEE  it  enacted  and  confirmed  by  the  authoritie  afore- 
said, That  no  clerkes  or  sherrilTes  fees,  nor  county 
nor  country  levies  after  two  yeeres  time  due,  be  reco- 
verable in  this  collony,  except  bill  be  taken  for  the 
same,  or  suite  commenced,  and  the  defendant  arrested 
or  in  case  of  absence  out  of  this  countrev* 


MARCH,  1657-8— 9th  OF  COMMONWEALTH.  483 

ACT  CXVI. 

Concerning    Mil  id's* 

WHEREAS  by  the  secondf  act  of  Assembly  A'o.  Preamble. 
1645,  It  was  ordered  and  established  for  the  reformeing 
the  greate  abuse  of  millers  in  exacting  excessive  and 
illegall  toll  that  no  person  or  persons  vseing  or  occupie- 
ing   any  mill  should  take  or  receive  for  the  grinde- 
ing  of  any  graine  or  exehangeing  it  for  meale  above 
the   sixth  part   thereof  for  tolle,  which   act  hath   not 
taken  such  effect   as  was  intended  thereby,  in  respect, 
as  is  conceived,  neither   penalty  was  imposed  thereon 
vpon  the  offender,  nor  the  execution  thereof  was  given 
in  direction   to  any  particular  officer,  It   is  therefore      Millers  to 
thought  fitt  to  enlarge  the  said  act  and  by  vertue  there-  provide  steei- 
of  to  require  all  millers  or  owners  of  mills  to  provide  -va,ds  01  fla 

i         i       rA  t  -it  /•  t  '.„.       ,      into  weights 

by  the  ffive  and  twentieth  day  of  June  next,  stilhards  anf)  scaies. 

or  statute  weights   and   scales  by  which  they  are  to   Penalty  for 

receive  in  and  deliver  out  all  graine,  and  that  they  do  not£"nchn? 

i  *u  •  i  •  or  exchanging 

sufficiently    gnnde  or  exchange   the  said   graine   soe  grain  for  meal 

brought  vppon  the  pennaltie  in  case  they  do  exact  be-  ortakingmore 

yond  the  said  proportion  for  grinding  or  exehangeing  or^te£fovy 

or  in  case  of  default  of  such  weights  or  scales,  or  for  ihg  weights. 

not  sufficient  grinding,  the  sume  of  one  thousand  pounds  &c- 

of  tobaccoe. 


ACT  CXVII. 

Accompts,  how  pleadable.^ 

BEE  it  enacted  by  authoritie  of  this  present  Grand      ^°  book- 
Assembly,  That  no  booke  debts  or  accompts  shall  bee  counts  reco_. 
henceforth  pleadable  in  any  court  of  justice  within  verabie. 
this  collonie  without  specialtie  or  writeing   vnder  the 
hand  or  hands  of  such  person  or  persons  that  shall  be 
impleaded  about  the  same,  Provided  that  this  act  shall   tracted  within 

the  colony 

See  ante  page  301,  act  IV  of  November,  1645;  and  act  XI  of 
November  1647,  ante  paj;e  347,  from  which  this  is  taken,  with  a- 
meudments. 

t   Act  IV  of  this  collection,  ante  page  301. 

i  Pee  act  VI  of  November,  1646;  act  VII  of  March,  1643-0. 


Not  to  extend 
to  debts  con- 


48b  LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 

If  the  debtor  extend  onely  to  such  debts  as  shall  be  made  within  tliib 

iblfdetrt  onDy  collony,  Provided  also  that  in  case  the  debter  bee  living, 

oath,  court  It  shall  be  lawful]  to  putt  the  debtor  to  his  oath,  and  in 

may  give  case   |,0   sna|j    refuse  to   swear  that  he  oweth  not  the 

judgment.  ^^  guc(.j  ^  no),  a(jje   ^an  thereof,  then  it   shall    be 

sufficient    evidence  against    him  for  the  court  to  pass 
judgment  against  him  for  so  much  of  the  said  debt  as 
Thisactnotto   j)ce  siu,]]  confess  or  not  denie  due  vpon  his  oath,  Pro- 
persons'  vtded  abac  that  this  act  in  noe  wise  extend  to  dead 
estates.  mens'  estates. 


ACT  CXVIII. 

Concerning   Denizations. 

Denization,  BEE  it  a  Is  oe  further  enacted  and  confirmed  by  ike  au- 

how  acquired    thorilie  aforesaid^  That  all  aliens  and  strangers  who 
have  inhabited  the  countrev  the  space  of  flower  yeeres, 
and  have  a  firme  resolution  to  make  this  countrey  their 
place  of  residence  shall  be  free  icmsons  of  this  collo- 
Oata.  ny,  Provided  they  and  everie  of  them  takf  the  oath  of 

ffidelhe  to  be  true  to  the  government  of  this  countrey, 
;"      And  the  said  oadi  is  to  be  admittistred  by  tlie  several! 
admimst  d.       courts   respectively  in    the  counties  where  anie  such 
Their chil-     aliens  do  dwell  :  Aid   it    is  also  further  enacted  that. 
dren4o  be  free   their    children   also    shall    be    ifree   denisous  of  this 
denizens  on      countrey    they  and  everie  of  them,  Also  kakeing   the 
of  fidelity  "  '   '"■'•'  oatn  °*  fiW^ty  when  they  shall  attain  to  lawful] 
when  they  ar-   age,  which  said  oath  is  to  be  administered  by  the  seve- 
ral I  couutie  courts  where  they  shall  happen  to  live  a? 
aforesaid. 


ACT  CXIX. 
Want  of  Form r  no  barr  to  a  Plea. 
WHEREAS    there  is  and  daily   doth  arise    exce= 


0  I 


sive   charges    and  greate  delaies  and    hinderances  oi 

justice  betwixt  the   subjects  of  this  collony  by  reason 

.  Co.ur*s  t0      of  small  mistakes  in  writts  and  formes  of  pleading.  It  is 
give  judgm  t.  ..  .  7  -  "  ,  ,        .  . 

according  to     thereforejor  the  prevention  (heicof,  enacted  by  tluspre- 

thc  ri  sent  Grand  Assembly)  That  all  courtes  of  judicature 

llu  fau!  within  this  collony  shall  proceed  and  give  judgement 

without         '  according  as  the  right  of  the  cause  and  the  matter  in 


MARCH,  1657-8— 9th  OF  COMMONWEALTH;  487 

lawe  shall  appeare  vnto  tliem,  without  regard   of  any  regard  to 

»     j  j    >     i.  c  r  •  •  .'..  form,  i»i  writ, 

imperfection,  default  or  want  ot   forme  in  any  wntt.  re-    r8tum plaint 
turne  plaint  or  process  or  any  other  cause  whatsoever,  process  or 

other  cause 


ACT  CXX. 

Concerning,  Supersedeas. 

WHEREAS  the  writt  of  supersedeas  is  frequently   Preamble 
obtained  vpon  slight  matters  rfnd  pretences  to  the  great 
injurie  and  prejudice  of  manie  of  the  inhabitants  of 
this  culloney  by   the  stopp  and  delaie  of  justice  there- 
by.  Bee  it  therefore  enacted  and  confirmed  by  the  au-   Damages  on 

thoritie  aforesaid  that   what  person  or  persons  soever   affirmance  of 
i     11       i  j.    ■  j  i   •       iuilffm't.  aftei 

shall  obta;ne  a  supersedeas  to  remove,  stopp  or  stale    .,*.,,.  „„ 
any  proceedings  in   lawe,  cither  in  quarter  or  county   10  per  cent. 
courts,  and   notwithstanding  after  be  cast  in  the  suite  &«>s,s 
shall   pay  vnto  the  party  grieved   tenn  pounds  in  the 
hundred  damage  for  so  much  as  shall  be  recovered  ci- 
ther in  money  or  tobacco,  besides  ordinarie  cost:. 


ACT  CXXI. 

Encouragement  to  make  Stile. 

WHEREAS    it   is  generally   supposed,    That  the  Premium foi 

makeing  of  silk  will  much  conduce  to  the  eood  of  this   Jns?kinS;lP0 

,.  »»•?,•  ,     ii     ,i  i       • 

or  accompted  merchantable  tobacco,  which  snail  have  longer  mer- 

therein  anie  ground  leaves,  And  be  it  also  enacted  by,  chantable. 

the  auihorilie  afutfsaid^  for  the  payment  of  old  debts,  debts  300 

that  three  hundred  pounds  oftobaccoe  without  ground  lbs. of  t'>i>a- 


488 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


co,  without 
ground  leaves, 

<>qual  to  400 
with  them. 
Proceeding 
where  the 
creditor  will 
not  accept. 
Public  levies, 
clerks'  fees, 
ice.  to  be  paid 
in  sood  tobac. 


Penalty  for 
packing  bad 
tobacco  with 
rop  tobacco. 


leaves  shall  pay  flower  hundred  pounds  of  tobaccoe, 
formerly  called  merchantable  tobaccoe,  haveing  the 
ground  leaves  therein  and  so  proportionably  :  And  if 
the  creditor  shall  not  accept  of  the  payment  of  the  said 
proportion  without  ground  leaves  then  the  residue  of 
the  debt  shall  bee  paied  him  with  ground  leaves,  being 
packt  and  putt  by  themselves,  And  be  it  also  enacted 
that  all  publique  levies,  clerkes  and  sherrifl's'  flees,  mi- 
nisters' dues  and  all  other  payments  whatsoever  touch- 
ing the  publique,  shall  be  henceforth  paid  in  good  to- 
bacco without  ground  leaves ;  And  in  case  anie  person 
or  persons  whatsoever  shall  false  pack  anie  tobacco, 
that  is,  pack  anie  ground  leaves  to  the  quantity  of  ffive 
pounds  in  a  hogshead,  among  his  topp  tobacco,  if  it 
shall  be  proved  by  the  testimony  of  two  or  three  view- 
ers, who  are  to  be  appointed  by  each  partie  concerned 
one  and  the  third  by  a  com'r.  vpon  whose  verdict  given 
vnder  their  hands,  It  shall  be  lawfull  for  the  said  com'r. 
to  give  order  for  the  burning  it. 


Penalty  for 
planting  or 
re-planting 
tobacco  after 
I'tth  July. 


ACT  CXXIIL 

None  lo  plant  Tobaccoe  after  10th  Julie. 

BEE  it  alsoe  enacted  by  the  authority  aforesaid, 
That  what  person  or  persons  soever  within  this  collo- 
ney  shall  plant  or  replant  any  tobacco  after  the  tenth 
day  of  July,  yearly,  shall  pay  and  forfeit  tenne  thou- 
sand pounds  of  tobaccoe,  the  one  halfe  thereof  for  the 
informer  and  the  other  halfe  for  the  vse  of  the  county 
where  the  offence  is  comitted. 


.Penalty  for 
exporting 

titles,  Iron 
or  w  oo'. 


ACT  CXXIV. 

Hides,  Iron  and  Wooll  not  to  bee  exported. 

WHEREAS  the  exportation  of  hides,  wool  and 
iron  is  gennerallie  conceived  to  be  much  prejudi- 
ciall  to  the  commonwealth  and  good  of  this  collony, 
Bee  it  therefore  enacted  by  the  authoritie  of  this  present 
Grand  Assembly  that  what  person  or  persons  soever, 
shall  export  out  of  this  collony  either  wool,  hides  or 
iron,  shall,  for  their  and  everie  of  their  offences  in  soe 
'loeing  paie  as  followeth,  vizt.  ffor  everie  hide,  soe  ex- 


MARCH,  1657-8— 9th  OF  COMMONWEALTH.  489 

ported  the  sume  of  one  thousand  pound  of  tobacco  and 
for  everie  pound  of  iron  tenne  pounds  of  tobaccoe,  and 
for  everie  pound  of  wooll  fiftie  pound  of  tobacco,  the 
one  halfe  of  which  said  payments  and  forfeitures  shall 
be  paid  to  the  informer,  and  the  other  halfe  to  the  puh- 
]ique. 


ACT  CXXY. 

Debts,  -vhen  to  be  demanded. 

WHEREAS  manie  creditors  for  severall  by  respects  Preamble, 
neglect  demanding  the  tobacco  due  to  them  in  due 
time,  by  that  meanes  enforcing  the  debtors  to  the  incon- 
veniencies  both  of  not  disposing  of  their  tob'o    nor 
paying  their  debts,  to  the  greate  damage  and  prejudice 
of  the  said  debtors,  Bee  it  therefore  enacted  that  everie 
person  or  persons  not  demanding  their  debts  between  ^laJiri'in"01 
the  tenth  of  October  and   the  last  of  January  shall  thiir  tobacco 
not  sue  or  implead  any  person  or  persons  indebted  to  ,!el)t  be  made, 
either  in  money  bills  of  exc'a.  or  goods  att  thirty  per  ^^f^eto 
cent,  advance  vpon  the  price  of  such  goods  at  the  first  masters. 
pennic  ;  And   ail  fl'reighiors   to  be  accountable  to  the 
*aid  masters  for  the  tobacco  by  them  shipped. 

Bee  it  also  ordained  and  enacted  by  the  authority  afore-  How  the 

said,   for  the  discovery  of  the  number  of  hogsheads  numterof 

each  shipp  or  vessell  contained  that  the  master  of  such  J^w"-1^ 
shipp  or  vessell  shall  deliver  his  boatswaines  booke  to 

'  ^o  marked  in  the  |\fS   but  \hv    •  he  rnrnplotr 


492 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


Penalty  on 
master  for 
concealing: 
quantity  cf 
Tobacco. 


If  duty  to  he 
paid  in  bills 
of  exchange, 
collector  to 
fake  security. 


Collectors  to 
be  appointed 
by  the  as>em- 
bly — and  to 
efive  security. 


Their  com- 
mission. 


Limitation  of 
this  act. 


Sam'l  Ma- 
thews, present 
governor,  re- 
quested to  ap- 
point collect- 
ors &.  take  se- 
curity. 
Vacancies, 
how  supplied. 


the  perusall  of  the  collector,  and  make  oath  of  the  truth 
of  the  same,  so  far  as  he  knoweth,  And  that  the  mates, 
boatsvvaines  or  any  other  seamen  be  sworne,  if  the  col- 
lector see  cause  to  discover  the  truth  of  the  said 
freight. 

And  if  any  mnster  of  shipp  or  vessell  shall  witting- 
ly or  willingly  conceale  any  part  of  his  flreight,  from 
the  collector,  and  shall  thereof  be  lawfully  convicted, 
then  the  said  master  shall  forfeit  for  ev'ry  such  offence 
the  sume  of  one  hundred  pounds  sterling,  one  inoietie 
thereof  to  goe  to  the  informer  and  the  other  to  the  pub- 
lique  to  be  recovered  by  action  of  debt,  bill  or  plaint, 
in  quarter  court  or  countie  courte  by  vertue  of  this  act 
against  which  no  essoigne,  wager  of  lawe  or  protection 
to  be  allowed  to  any  person  soe  offendinge. 

Bee  it  further  enacted  and  ordained,  that  if  any  mas- 
ter shall  pass  bills  of  exchange  for  the  said  imposition, 
that  then  the  collectors  are  hereby  required  to  take 
sufficient  caution  of  the  said  master  for  the  true  and 
good  payment  of  the  same. 

7/  is  hereby  ordained  and  enacted,  That  the  collectors 
of  the  severall  rivers  and  places  in  Virginia  for  the 
receiveing  of  the  said  two  shillings  per  hogshead  be  ap- 
pointed and  confirmed  by  this  present  Grand  Assem- 
bly and  give  sufficient  security  and  caution  for  the  due 
execution  of  the  trust  hereby  reposed  in  them  ;  And  to 
be  accomptable  to  the  next  Assembly  according  to  the 
tenor  of  this  act,  And  the  said  collectors  to  be  allow- 
ed tenne  per  cent,  sallarie  for  collecting  the  said  impo- 
sition, Provided  allwaies  and  it  is  hereby  ordained  and 
enacted  bu  the  authoritie  aforesaid,  That  this  present  act 
of  Assembly  be  and  remaine  in  force  for  one  whole 
yeare  and  noe  longer. 

It  is  also  desired  by  this  present  Grand  Assembly 
that  the  hon'ble  Samuell  Mathewes,  Esq>.  Governour, 
do  grant  out  comissions  to  the  severall  collectors  no- 
minated with  full  authoritie  to  execute  their  offices  and 
to  take  sufficient  caution  of  them,  for  their  true  and 
faithful  execution  of  their  offices  according  to  the 
abovesaid  trusts  and  in  case  of  the  non-acceptance  of 
the  place  of  collector  by  any  person  here  nominated 
or  in  case  of  any  of  their  mortality,  the  Governour  is 
hereby  impowered  to  putt  another  in  their  place  take 
ing  caution  as  aforesaid. 


MARCH,  lG57-b— 9th  OF  COMMONWEALTH. 


4W 


ACT  CXX1X. 

Burgesses  Charges,  hoio  to  be  raited. 

BEE  it  enacted  that  in  regard  the  money  levied  at  Counties  to 
two  shillings  per  hogshead  by  reason  of  the  disburs-   !«fses"s  for. 
ment  for  agencie  and  other  publique  debts,  cannot  this  merly. 
yeare  defray  the  Burgesses  charges,  That  the  severall 
counties  respectively  shall,  by  a  county  levie  as  former- 
ly, pay  the  charge  of  their  severall  respective  Burges- 
ses for  this  Assembly. 


ACT  CXXX. 


Peices  of  Eight,  to  pass  at  Five  Shillings 


r. 


BEE  it  hereby  enacted  by  this  Grand  Assembly.  That 
noe  false  money  shall  pass  for  currant  in  this  countrey, 
but  peices  of  eight  that  are  good  and  of  silver  shall 
pass  for  live  shillings  currant  money  vpon  pennaltie  of 
twenty  shillings  to  be  paid  by  the  refusers  of  them, 
And  that  none  shall  exporte  money  out  of  this  coun- 
trey above  the  sume  of  fortie  shillings,  if  any  shall  ex- 
ceed the  said  sume  to  forfeite  double  the  value  there- 
of. 


No  money  of 
bad  metal  to 
pass — hut 
pieces  of  eight, 
of  silver,  to 
pass  at  five 
shillings. 
Penalty  for  re- 
fusing them. 
For  exporting 
above  40s.  in 
mnnev. 


ACT  CXXX1. 

For  the  Adjournment  of  the  Assembly. 

BEE  it  enrfcf  erf  That  this  present  session  of  Assem- 
bly bee  adjourned  vntill  the  second  Monday  in  March 
next,  and  in  case  of  the  death,  departure  out  of  the 
countrey  or  any  of  the  present  members  being  made 
sherriffes,  and  so  incapable  of  serving  as  a  Burgesse 
the  next  sessions,  then  the  respective  sherrifls  to  give 
timely  notice  to  the  people  in  the  severall  counties  to 
make  a  new  election,  And  if  anie  emergent  occasions 
requires  the  conveneiug  the  Assembly  before  the  day 
before  limitted,  the  Governour  is  hereby  desired  and 
impowered  to  send  out  his  sumons  lor  the  speedy  con- 

1  mm  act  IV  of  March,  1655-6  (ante  page  397)  which  repealed 
icflVof  March    1664-5.  (ante  pag  two  assemhlif 
were i  omposed  <>l   rery  tltffrrent  uienibers. 


iOO  LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 

dily  to  finish  the  present  affaires  to  the  satisfaction  of 
your  honour  and  the  whole  country. 
Subscribed, 

JOHN  SMITH,  Speaker. 


Votes  of  the         VPON  which  transactions  (worne  out*) 

upon"!  Cre  being  but  three  monthes  absent,  It  was 
voted  vnanimously,  That  no  Burgesse 
and  if  any  shall  depart,  That  he  shall  be  censured  as  a 
person  betraying-  the  trust  reposed  in  him  by  his  coun- 
try, And  the  remaining  to  act  in  all  things  and  to  all 
intents  and  purposes  as  a  whole  and  entire  house,  And 
fftirther,  That  Mr.  Speaker  signe  nothing  without  the 
consent  of  the  major  part  of  the  house. 

Voted  further,  That  an  oath  of  secresy  be  adminis- 
tred  to  the  Burgesses  which  was  done  as  followeth. 

The  Oath. 

Oath  of  se-  You  shall  sweare  that  as  a  Burgesse  of  this  House 

crecy.  vou  sjia]l  noi  either  directly  or  indirectly  repeate  nor 

discover  the  present  or  future  transactions,  debates  or 
discourses  that  are  now  or  hereafter  shall  be  transacted 
or  debated  on  in  the  House  to  any  person  or  persons 
whatsoever  except  to  a  Burgesse  of  this  Assembly  now 
present  durting  the  time  of  this  present  session.  So 
help  you  God  and  the  contents  of  this  Booke. 

This  oath  taken  by  all  the  Burgesses  present. 


The  reply  of  the  honourable  the  Governour  and  CouncilL 

Reply  of  the         VPON  your  assurance  of  a  speedy  issue  to  conclude 

governor  and  tne  acts  so  near  brought  to  a  confirmation  in  this  As- 
council.  ri  mi.        .  1  i 

sembly,  wee  are  willing  to  come  to  a  speedy  conclu- 
sion, And  to  referre  the  dispute  of  the  power  of  di- 
solving  and  the  legality  thereof  to  his  Highnesse  the 
Lord  Protector ; 

Subscribed, 

SAMUELL  MATHEWES. 

Win.  CLAIBORNE,  Sec. 

Ja:  Cittie,  April  2d,  165S. 


So  marked,  in  the  MS. 


MARCH,  1657-8— 9th  OF  COMMONWEALTH.  50] 

Tlie  Answer  of  the  Burgesses. 

THE   House  is  vnanimously  of   opinion   that  the  Answer  of  the 
answer  returned  is  vnsatisfactory,  and  desire  with  as  burs  still  unsa- 
tion  and   vindication  of  the  Assembly's  power  which  pojntacom. 
after  presentation  to  the  House  to  be  sent  to  the  Go-  mittee  to 
vernour  and  Councill,  These  vnderwritten  being  ap-  draw  up  a  re 

•    .     I  .i  ...„  *       solution  as- 

pointed  the  committee  :  ?erting  theil 

Coll.  John  Carter,  Mr.  Warham  Horsmenden,  Coll. 
John  Sidney,  Lev't.  Coll.  Thomas  Swann,  Major  Rich- 
ard Webster,  Mr.  Jerom  Ham,  Capt.  Wm.  Michell. 

The  same  comittee  is  by  the  House  impowered  to 
draw  vp  all  such  propositions  as  any  way  tend  to  or 
concerne  the  settling  the  present  affaires  of  the  coun- 
try and  government. 


as- 
i 
power. 


5o2 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


Report  of  the 
'•ommittee. 


House  of  bur- 
gesses not  dis- 
solvable by 
an}'  power  in' 
Virginia. 


Fropusition 
For  appoint'g. 

governor  and 
•otincil. 


The  Report  of  the  Comittee  nominated  for  vindication 
andmanijettation  of  the  Assemblyes  P  wer. 

WEE  have  considered  the  present  consiitudon  of 
the  government  of  Virginia  and  do  propose,  That  wee 
find  by  the  records,  The  present  power  of  govern- 
ment to  reside  in  such  persons  as  shall  be  impowered 
by  the  Burgesses  (the  representatives  of  the  pr    Esquires. 

Coll.  Abraham  Wood,         ) 
Coll.  John  Carter, 
Mr.  Warham  Horsmenden, 
Le't.  Coll.  Anto.  Ellyotte. 

These  3  last  not  to  be  sworne  vntill  the  dissolution 
of  the  Assembly. 

These  marked  in  the  margent  with  the  letter  S : 
where  then  sworne  in  the  forme  expressed,  their  titles 
onely  changed. 


ATT    A 
HELD    AT    JAMES    CITTY,    MARCH    THE    1st.    1658-9.* 


505 


[From  a  MS.  received  from  Edmund  Randolph,  Esq. 
which  was  once  the  property  of  Sir  John  Randolph, 
who  transmitted  it  to  his  son  Peyton  Randolph,  Esq. 
after  whose  death  it  was  purchased,  with  his  library, 
by  Thomas  Jefferson,  Esq.  from  whom  it  was  bor- 
rowed by  Edmund  Randolph,  EsqJ] 


KFThe  MS 
from  which 
•  he  acts  of 
(hist  session 
were  printed, 
is  now  in  the 
library  of 
Congress,  at 
Washington 


THE  Burgesses  of  the  several  counties  being  re- 
turned by  the  SherrirTes  and  this  day  makeing 
their  appearance  in|  the  House,  there  was  by  the  vna- 
nimous  vote  of  all  then  present  (being  thirty  in  num- 
ber) choson,  Coll.  Edward  Hill,  Speaker,  and  being 


*  This  is  dated  simply   1658,  in  the  MS  ;  but  from  many  obvious 
circumstances,  it  is  here  placed  as  1658-9.     These  are,  the  different 
speakers  at  this  session  and  the  last  ;  the  change  in  the  members 
and  the  subject  matter  of  the  laws  and  resolutions  passed 

3Q 


,06 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


by  them  presented  to  the  Governour  from  him  receiv- 
ed approbation.! 


The  names  of  the  Burgesses  for  the  respective  Counties 

this  Assembly. 


Coll.  Edward  Hill,  Speaker. 


For  Henrico  County. 
Mr.  William  Hatcher, 

For  Charles  Citty  County. 

The  Speaker. 

Mr.  War'm  Horsmenden, 

James  Citty  County. 

Mr.  Walter  Chiles, 
Capt.  William  Whittacre, 
Capt.  Thomas  Foulke, 
Capt.  Matthew  Edlowe, 

Sui'ry  County. 

Capt.  Geo  :  Jordan, 
Mr.  Thamas  Warren, 
Capt.  Wm.  Cawfeild, 

Isle  of  Wight  County. 

Coll.  Robert  Pitt, 
Major  John  Bond, 
Capt.  English, 
Mr.  James  Pyland. 

tapper  Norfolke. 

Leift.  Coll.  Ed'w  Carter, 
Capt.  Thomas  Goodwyn, 
Mr.  Giles  Webb. 


Lower  Norfolke, 

Capt.  John  Sidney, 
Mjor  Lemuel  1  Mason. 

Warwick  County. 
Mr.  John  Harlowe. 

Elizabeth  Cittie  Countie. 

Mr.  William  Batte, 
Mr.  fflorentine  Paine. 

Yorks  County. 

Nathaniel  Bacon,  Esq'r. 
Major  Joseph  Crowshaw. 
Mr.  Thomas  Bushrod, 
Mr.  William  Hay. 

New  Kent  County. 
Mr.  William  Blacke. 

Lancaster  County. 

Coll.  John  Carter, 
Mr.  Hen  :  Corben. 

Rappahannock  County. 

Coll.  Moore  flantlcrov, 
Mr.  John  Weye. 


t  To  give  some  idea  of  the  parliamentary  forms  observed  at  this 
period,  most  of  the  proceedings  of  this  session,  which  are  much 
more  regular  than  those  of  any  preceding  one,  will  be  inserted 


MARCH,  1658-9— 10th  OF  COMMONWEALTH.  507 

Glocester  County.  Northampton  County. 

Capt.  (Francis  Willis,  Coll.  John  Stringer, 

Capt.  Augustine  Warner.      Mr.  William  Jones. 

Northumberland  County. 

George  Collclough. 


WHEREAS  Coll.  Moore  ffantleroy  not  being  pre-  Moore  Fantie- 

sent  in  the  House  at  the  election  of  the  Speaker  mov-  roy,  a  member, 

cd  against  him  as  if  clandestinely  elected  and  taxed  contempt to°r 

the  House  of  vnwarrantable  proceedings  therein,  It  is  the  house. 
ordered,  That  the   said  Coll.  ffantleroy  be  suspended 
vntill  to-morrow  morning,  when  vppon  his  submission 
he  may  be  readmitted. 

The  House  adjourned  vntill  Tuesday  morning. 


MARCH  the  8th,  1658-9. 

THE  House  being  mett,  Coll.   Fantleroy  acknow-   Fantieroy  re- 
ledging  his  error,  was  re-admitted  and  the  order  for  admitted, 
suspension  reversed. 


Orders  for  observation  of  good  order  in  the  House  being 
this  day  read  are  generally  assented  to  and  ordered 
to  be  recorded. 

ORDERS  IN  THE  HOUSE.* 


Absence. 


1.  That  no  Burgesse  shall  absent  himselfe  from  at- 
cndance  on  the  House  without  leave  first  obteined  (vn- 
lesse  prevented  by  sicknesse)  when  any  matter  shall  0rdci 
be  debated  of;  But  that  every  member  shall  keepe 
good  order,  and  give  due  attention  to  the  reading  or 
debateing  of  whatsoever  shall  be  proposed  or  present-    ».■.„„  , 

.-   =>  .  riTixii  Address  to 

cd  to  the  consideration  ot  the  House:  And  that  every  the  speaket 

Burgesse  shall,  with  due  respect,  addresse  himselfe  to 

Mr.  Speaker  in  a  decent  manner,  And  not  entertaine 


*  These  rules  were  the  first  which  appear  to  have  been  adopted, 
and  agree  almost  verbatim  with  the  first  five  adopted  at  the  aejsion  of 
1he 
government. 


MARCH  the  13th,  1658. 

COLL.  John  Carter,  Mr.  Warham  Horsmonden  & 
Capt.  Francis  Willis,  Capt.  Warner,  Le:tt.  Coll. 
Carter  w^re  by  the  House  sent  to  the  Governor  and 
Council!  for  their  assent  to  the  last  proposition  con- 
cerning the  establishing  the  government. 


Answer  of 
the  gov'r.  and 
council. 


The  Governour  and  CouncilVs  Answer  to  the  Burgesses 

Proposition. 

To  shew  our  desire  and  complyance  for  the  peace  of 
the  co.Uony,  wee  shall  consent  till  the  pleasure  of  his 
Highness  be  further  signified. 


MARCH  1658-9— 10th  OF  COMMONWEALTH.  515 

Wherevpon  the  proposition  was  drawn  vp    into  an  Law  passed 

act  and  signed  by  the  Governour  and  Speaker  and  by  on  the  subJect 
beat  of  drum  proclaimed.* 

Whereas  Solomon  Martin  hath  scandalously  object-  Martin  corn- 
ed against  Coll.  Wm.  Bernard,  a  Councellor  ofState,  mitted  for 
that  he  could  make  his  servants  swear  what  he  would,  slnnder,0Sa 

rru         ti  ii  -ii  •  i  ht  •  number  of 

lne    House    hath    counted  the  said  Martin  to  prison  the  council, 
vntill  Monday  morning  for  his  offence. 


WHEREAS  order  for  patterning  the  land  of  the  The  Wiccaco- 
Wiccacomoco  Indians  in  Northumberland  county  vpon  moco  Indians 
the  said  Indians  desei  ting  the   said   land  was  granted  h? jj^? d,eSe!| ** 
to  the  honourable  Samuel  Mathewes,  Esq.  Governour,  &,  reded  it  to 
&c.  the  twenty-seaventh  day  of  November,  1657,  and  Sam'i  Ma- 
confirmed  by  another  order  of  the  quarter  court,  dated  Irani5  confirm- 
the   eleaventh  of   March,   1658,  and   that   grounded  ed. 
vppon  the  desire  of  the  said  Indians  to  surrender  the 
same  to  his  honour,  The   Assembly   hath  thought  fitt 
to  ratifye  the  said  grams,  and  do  hereby  confirme  the 
same,  Provided  that   no  intrenchment  be  made  vpon 
any  preceding  rights  of  Coll.  Richard  Lee.     * 


MARCH  the  15th,  1658. 

PROPOSED,  Whether  Coll.  John    Carter,   Mr.  New  election 

Warham  Horsmonden  and  Le'tt.  Coll.  Auto.  Elliottf  of  certain 

.-__  _-._  -.  mi  l  tlr  I  I  lilt- 


councillor. 


should,  by  vertue  of  their  last  election  continue  coun- 
cilors or  be  referred  to  a  further  confirmation. 

Resolved  that  they  should  be  referred  to  a  new  el- 
lcction. 


TO  the  quere  of  the  Governour  and  Councill  refer-  The  gov.  and 
red    to    the    consideration  of    the    Assembly,  March  |hT advice  of 


"  This  was  probably  art  I.  of  the  preRpnt  session,  by  which  the  go- 
vernor awl  council  ;ire  appointed,  and  the  mode  of  election  and  te- 
nure of  their  offices  prescribed,  till  the  pleasure  of  his  highness  shall 
be  known. 

I  Thea«  were  the  three  last  elected  at  the  session  of  March,  1657-8 


516 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


(he  assembly 
as  to  the  right 
of  appeal  in  a 
certain  case. 


Judgment  of 
Surry  court 
reversed  for 
giving  a  law 
an  ex  post 
facto  opera- 
tion. 


the  11th,  1658,  in  causa  Elizab :  Perry  vs.  Thomas 
Davies,  After  long;  suite  judgment  given,  execution 
served,  A  new  suite  is  againe  renewed  by  Davis  in 
chancery,  And  then  Davis*  appealing  to  the  Assembly 
whether  his  appealemustbe  allowed,  hee  neither  charg- 
ing the  court  with  error,  injustice  or  partiality. 


VPON  the  petition  of  Coll.  Henry  Browne  shew- 
ing, That  he  was  impleaded  by  John  Jennings,  over- 
seer of  the  estate  of  Robert  Morslay,  dec'd.  to  reco- 
ver a  debt  without  ground  leaves  which  was  made  for 
tobacco  then  merchantable  att  the  date  of  the  bill, 
And  Surry  county  court  haveing  granted  an  order  for 
payment  of  the  said  debt  in  tobacco  cieer  of  ground 
leaves,  according  to  the  tenor  of  the  act  of  Assembly 
now  in  force,  It  is  ordered,  That  the  order  of  Surry 
county  court  be  reversed;  And  that  the  said  Jennings 
forthwith  repay  vnto  the  said  Coll.  Browne  the  over- 
plus of  the  tobacco  and  caske  received  by  vertue  of 
the  said  order  of  Surry  court  with  costs  als.  exec'on. 


ATT    A 


held  at  James  Cittie,  March  7,  1658-9, 


ID'  The  MS 
from  which  the 
acts  of  this 
session  were 
printed,  is  now 
in  the  library 
of  Congress,  a  I 
Washington. 


Samuel  Ma- 
thewes  elected 
gov.  for  two 
years. 


[From  a  MS.  received  from  Edmund  Randolph,  Esq. 
which  was  once  the  property  of  Sir  John  Randolph, 
who  transmitted  it  to  his  son  Peyton  Randolph,  Esq. 
after  whose  death,  it  was  purchased,  with  his  library, 
by  Thomas  Jefferson,  Esq.  from  whom  it  was  bor- 
rowed by  Edmund  Randolph,  Esq.] 

ACT  I. 

IT  is  enacted  and  confirmed  by  the  Governour,  Coun- 
cil and  Burgesses  of  this  present  Grand  Assembly, 
That  the  honourable  Coll.  Samuell  Mathewes,  Esquire. 


*  "  Daines"  in  the  MS.  but  evidently  a  mistake 


MARCH,  1658-9— 10th  OF  COMMONWEALTH. 


51' 


Bee  the  Governour  and  Cape.  Gennerall  of  Virginia  for 
two  yeeres  ensueing,  and  then  the  Grand  Assembly 
to  elect  a  Governour  as  they  shall  think  fitt,  the  per- 
son elect  being  then  one  of  the  Councell,  And  it  is  fur- 
ther enacted,  That  the  present  Councell  shall  be  the 
Councell  of  State,  the  Assembly  reserveing  to  them- 
selves a  just  exception  against  any  one  perticular  Coun- 
cellor  ;  But  for  the  future  the  Councellors  to  be  fixt 
dureing  life  except  in  case  of  high  misdemanors,  And 
of  this  the  Grand  Assembly  to  be  the  onely  judge, 
And  it  is  moreover  ordained  by  the  authoritie  aforesaid, 
That  the  Governour  shall  have  priviledgeto  nominate 
the  future  councellors,  and  the  Burgesses  according  to 
their  discretion  to  elect,  And  this  act  to  be  of  force 
vntil  his  Highness  pleasure  be  further  signified. 


Provision  foi 
another  elec- 
tion. 

Council  of 
state. 


Tenure  of 
their  office  in 
future. 
Members  of 
council  to  be 
nominated  by 
gov.  k.  elected 
by  burgesses. 
Limitation  of 
act. 


ACT  II. 

Concerning  conveneing  of  Assemblies. 

WHEREAS   by  act  of  this   present  Assembly,  It  Assembly, 
is  provided,  That  the  Assembly  should,  at  the  end  how  convene* 
of  two    yeeres  elect  a  Governour,  but   no  provision 
therein   made  for   convention  of  an  Assembly  at  that 
time  to  make  the  said  election,  It  is  proposed  that  the 
Governour  shall  issue  forth  his  summons  in  January 
preceeding  March,  which    shall   be  from    hence    two 
yeares,  and  in  case  the  Governour  at  the  time  appoint- 
ed shall   omitt  the  sending  forth  such  summons,  then 
that  by  the  tenth  of  ffebruary,  the   Secrettarie  for  the 
time  being  shall  send  forth  writtes  for  election  of  Bur- 
gesses, and  in  case  the  secretary  shall  neglect,  then  the   Session  the 
sherriffe,  by  his  owne  power  to  convene  the  people  (by   10(h  0l  Marcl 
the  20th  of  ffebruary)  to  elect  Burgesses  for  the  next  years. 
Assembly,  which  of  course  is  to  beginn    the  tenth  of     GovV.omj 

March  everie  two  yeeres,  reserving  a  power  to  the  Go-  convene  ,n 
J  '        it  i     •  case  °' L'"' 

vernour  to  convene  an  Assembly  sooner  vpon  the  inter-  gencv. 

veneing  of  any  important  occasion. 


ACT  III. 

How  to  know  a  Runnaway  Servant. 

WHEREAS  the  act  for  runnaway  servants  appoints   The  hair o 
onely   the   punishment  of  the  said  servants  and  the   ""»"wa.v  ?*" 


51S 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


vanttobccut    pennaltie  of  entertaineing  them,   but  provides  no  way 
close  above       for  t"l>"g' 

i      ii        r  i       ec.  l-    t  pi        Lnglish  goods 

shall,  alter  the  rnrst  ot  June  next,  exporte  out  of   the  except  by  the 
collony  any  English  goods  (not   by  hint  formerly  im-   person  import- 
ported)  shall,  vppon  discovery   of   the  same    forfeite  mS  tliem 
such  goods  or  the  value  thereof,  the  one  halfe  to  the  in- 
former and  the  other  to  the  publique. 


ACT  VII. 

Concerning  Appeales. 

WHEREAS  the  acte  for  appeales,  hathlimitted  the  Preamble, 
value  of  appeales  from  countie  courts  to  quarter  courts, 
but  noe  limitation  of  appeale  from  quarter  courts 
to  Assemblies,  whereby  many  litigious  suites  for  in- 
considerable valewcs  are  brought  into  Assemblies  to 
the  hinderance  of  the  publique  affaires  and  advance 
of  the  publique  charge,  It  is  enacted  and  ordained,  Right  of  ap- 
That  noe  appeale  be  made  from  the  quarter  court  to  the  peal  from  qr 


b  20 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


court  to  as- 
sembly limit- 
ed. 


Assembly  vnder  the  valew  of  two  thousand  ffive  hun- 
dred pounds  of  tobacco  the  originall  debt  besides  costs 
and  damages. 


Preamble. 


Right  of  ap- 
peal from 
Nor'ampton 
county  k>  qr. 
court  limited. 


ACT  VIII. 

Concerning  Appeales  from  Northampton  Countie.    ) 

WHEREAS  an  act  of  Assembly  had  formerly  pro- 
vided, That  in  regard  of  the  greate  distance  between 
Northampton  countie  and  James  Cittie,  that  noe  ap- 
peale  should  lie  from  the  said  countie  courte,  to  the 
quarter  courts,  vnder  the  value  of  three  thousand  two 
hundred  pounds  of  tobacco  or  thirty  pounds  sterling, 
It  is  hereby  enacted  and  confirmed,  That  for  the  reasons 
aforesaid  no  appeale  be  hereafter  made,  from  thence 
nor  admitted  in  the  quarter  courte  vnles  it  exceed  the 
valew  aforesaid. 


ACT  IX. 

The  Act  for  Mullberrie  Trees  repealed. 

Act  8  of  Dec.         WHEREAS  the  act  for  mullberrie  trees  seemes  ra- 
i6o6rep'ld.       rfier  troublesome  and  burthensome  then  any  waies  ad- 
vantageous to  the  country,  It  is  hereby  enacted,  That 
the  said  act  for  planting  mullberrie  trees  shall  be  re- 
pealed and  made  void. 


Preamble. 


Vestry  of 
each  parish 
electing  a 
burgess  to 
direct  paym't 
of  his  wages  : 

Collectors 
may  distrain  : 


ACT  X. 

Concerning  the  Charges  of  a  Parochiall  Burgess. 

WHEREAS  many  disputes  and  controversies  have 
arose  about  the  defraying  of  the  charge  of  the  pa- 
roachiall  Burgesses,  by  reason  the  vestrys  of  the  said 
parishes  have  not  been  sufficiently  qualified  for  laying 
the  same  vppon  the  people,  It  is  hereby  enacted  and  or- 
dained, That  the  vcstrie  of  any  parish  which  shall  elect 
any  Burgess  shall  be  impowered  to  order  payment  for 
his  charges,  And  in  case  any  persons  within  the  parish 
electing  shall  refuse  to  make  payment  according  to 
their  order,  then  the  collectors  shall  by  vertue  of  that 


MARCH,  1658-9— 1  Oth  OF  COMMONWEALTH.  52a 

order  make  distresse  for  the  same,  which  shall  be  ac- 
counted authentique  in  any  court  of  judicature  within 
this  collonie. 


ACT  XI. 

Mr.  Thomas  Flood  made  Interpreter  for  the  Country, 

WHEREAS  Coll.  John  fflood  hath  long  and  faith-  i«dian  inter* 
fully  served  this  country  in  the  office  of  an  interpreter  polme.f11 
and  being  now  deceased,  It  is  enacted,  That  Thomas 
fflood,  son  to  the  said  Coll.  John  fflood,  being  recom- 
mended to  the  Assembly  for  his  abillity  in  the  Indian 
tongue  shall  be  received  in  the  place  of  his  fiather  and 
have  the  same  salarv. 


ACT  XII. 

Encouragement  to  make  Silke. 

FOR  inrouragment  to  the  makeing  of  silke,  It  is  Premium  for 
enacted.  That  whosoever  shall   make  fflftie   pound  of  md  m" Sl   ' 
wound  silke  shall  receive  from  the  publique  as  a  re- 
ward of  his  dilligence  tenn  thousand  pounds  of  tobacco. 
Provided  he  prove  it  to  be  all  of  Iris  owne  makeing. 


ACT  XIII. 

The  Actes  for  Juries  Inquest  and  for  Peoples  hringing 
in  the  Listes  of  their  Families  are  repealed. 

WHEREAS  the  acts  for  juryes  of  inquiry  and  for  Actsrbrim- 

peoples  bringing  in  the  lists  of  their  families  have  not  5?"™f 'lUf 

produced  sucli  success  as  was  expected  tor  detection  or  and  concern 

offences,  or  discovering  the  true  number  of  the  titha-  ingtitbaMes 

bles,  It  is  enacted,  That  both  the  said  acts  be  repealed  Secret  m  ol 

and  the   sherriiTs  to  take  lists  as  formerly  hathabeen  1657-s. 
accustomed. 


ACT  XIV. 

Ordinaries  Regulated. 

WHEREAS  many  inconveniencies  and  much  dam-  Preamble 
mage  ariseth  to  the  whole  country  in  gennerall  through 
the  exorbitant  prices  of  drinke  sold  by  ordinarie-keep- 

3S 


rZ-Z 


d>'ty  courts 
to  fix  tavern 
rates  accord- 
ing1 to  the 
price  of  tob. 
License  to  be 
obtained  and 
bond  and  se- 
curity given. 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 

ers,  which  the  acts  for  limitation  of  the  prices  have  not 
wholly  prevented,  Bee  it  therefore  enacted,  That  the 
county  courts  shall,  as  the  prices  of  tobacco  shall  rise 
or  fall,  from  time  to  time  sett  rates  how  the  drinke  shall 
be  sold,  And  none  to  be  permitted  to  keep  ordinaries 
vnles  they  first  take  out  their  license  and  give  good  se- 
curity to  sell  att  no  other  rates  then  those  by  the  courts 
appointed,  not  excludeing  the  power  of  the  Governour 
and  Council  in  the  time  of  quarter  courts  at  Janm 
Cittie. 


ACT  XV. 

In  what  case  a  Supersedeas  may  he  granted. 

xNo  superse-  WHEREAS  many  causless  molestations  arise  by  the 

deas  grantable  frequent  granting  of  a  supersedeas,  Bee  it  enacted  and 
7nt%Zu'\]\  confirmed,  That  noe  supersedeas  be  granted  but  in  such 
He.  cases  and  causes  by  any  court  where  an  appeale  doth 

lie  open, 


ACT  XVI. 

Attomies  for  Buisiness  out  of  England  to  putt  in  Sem- 

ritie. 


Fream!>!4oi 
Hides  is  hereby  repealed  and  liberty  given  to  any  one  J^g 
to  make  their  best,  advantage  of  them.  P^  '    repea    * 


ACT  XXIV. 

Free  Trade  with  the  Indians. 

WHEREAS  it  is  manifest  that  the  neighbouringe  Preamble 

plantations  both   of  English  and  ft'orrainers   do  plen- 

tifully  furnish  tli^Indians    with    gunns,    powder  &^"    \J  Jjs* 
shott,  and  do  thereby  drawe  from  vs  the  trade  of  bei&y •/r~"  *v 
ver  to  our  greate  losse  and  their  profitt,  and    besiAdr/  V$ 

the  Indians  being  furnished  with  as  much  of  both  gilwCy         \ 
and  ammunition  as  they  are  able  to  purchase,  Itistfev-   TradSftiih  | 

acted,  That  every  man  may  freely  trade  for  gipw*,   Indiawp allow- 
powder  and  sholt :     It  deroerateine:  nothing  fronx,»jr  p-' 

The  Burgesses/or  the  severall  Plantations. 

Henrico  County.  James  Citty  County. 

Mr.  Theoderick  Bland,      Mr.  Henry  Soane, 

Speaker.     Capt.  Robert  Ellison, 
Capt.  William  ffarrer.        Mr.  Richard  Ford, 


Charles  Citty  County. 


Mr.  William  Morlev. 

Surry  County. 


Mr.  Theoderick  Bland. ] 

Capt.  Robert  Wynne,         Major  Wm.  Cawfield, 

Mr.  Charles  Sparrow.         Mr.  William  Browne, 


civil  war,  they,  by  their  intercourse  with  the  colonists,  conurmed 
them  in  principles  of  loyalty,  ai.d  added  to  their  impatience  and  in- 
dignation under  the  restraints  imposed  on  their  commerce  by  their 
new  masters.  On  the  death  of  Mathews,  the  last  governor  named 
by  Cromwell,  the  sentiments  and  inclination  of  the  people,  no  longer 
under  the  control  of  authority,  burst  out  with  violence.  They  forced 
Sir  William  Berkeley  to  quit  his  retirement ;  they  unanimously  elect- 
ed bun  governor  of  the  colon}' ;  and  as  he  re-fused  to  act  under  an 
usurped  authority,  they  boldly  erected  the  royal  standard,  and  ac- 
knowledging Charles  II.  to  be  their  lawful  sovereign,  proclaimed 
him  with  all  his  titles  ;  and  the  Virginians  long  boasted,  that  as  they 
were  the  last  of  the  king's  subjects  who  renounced  their  allegiance,  they 
were  the  first  who  returned  to  their  duty." 

(Robert.  Hist.  Amer.  vol.  4,  pa.  230.) 

Never  was  there  so  short  an  extract  more  replete  with  error — 
.Not  a  dictum  contained  in  it,  is  supported  by  the  public  records  of  the 
colony;  but,  on  the  contrary,  they  directly  contradict  every  assertion 
of  this  historian. 

From  the  death  of  Charles  I,  in  1649,  to  the  restoration  of  Charles 
II,  in  1660,  not  a  governor  of  Virginia,  had  been  appointed  either  by 
the  commonwealth  or  by  Cromwell.  In  truth,  almost  every  page  of 
the  Assembly's  records,  from  the  date  of  the  convention  with  the  com- 
missioners of  parliament,  in  1651-2  (see  ante  pa.  363,  371,)  till  the 
termination  of  the  commonwealth,  proves  that  the  government  of 
Virginia  was  entirely  provisional ;  and  it  no  where  appears  that  the 
influence  of  Cromwell's  protectorship  was  extended  to  this  colony.  If 
this  idea  required  any  confirmation  beyond  what  is  clearly  deducible 
from  the  face  of  the  records,  it  would  be  found  in  the  letter  from  the 
president  of  the  council  in  England,  (ante  page  509)  announcing 
Cromwell's  death  ;  which  expressly  states,  that  certain  measures  had 
n  contemplated  by  the  Protector,  towards  settling  the  government 
of  Virginia,  "  and  some  resolutions  passed  in  order  thereto,  which,  it 
was  supposed,  would  have  been  brought  into  act,  by  that  time,  if  the 
Lord  had  continued  life  and  healih  to  His  highness." 

After  the  death  of  Cromwell,  his  son  Richard  was  acknowledg- 
ed as  his  successor,  by  the  colony  of  Virginia,  (ante  pa.  511)  and 
the  same  provisional  government  continued  ;  the  bouse  of  burgc 


£28  LA.WS  OF  VIRGINIA, 

Me  of  Wight  County.  Vpper  Norfolke 

Coll.  Robert  Pitt,  Mr.  Giles  Webb. 

Major  Rich  :   Hill,  Mr.  William  Denson, 

Major  John  Bono",  Mr.  George  Catchmaie. 
Mr.  Nicholas  Smith. 


having  more  and  more  encroached  on  the  powers  of  the  governor  and 
council,  till  ihey  left  them  mere  cyphers.  (See  ante  from  page  499  to 
505.)  It  was  not  until  after  Richard  had  resigned  the  reins  of  go- 
vernment, on  the  22d  of  April,  1659,  and  before  the  restoration  of 
Charles  II,  on  the  29th  of  May,  1660,  that  the  assembly  passed  an  act 
expressly  "  taking  the  power  into  the  assemblie's  hands,"  though  they 
had,  in  effect,  exercised  all  the  powers  of  government  long  before. 
The  first  four  acts  of  this  session  (1659-60)  shew  the  measures  of  th« 
assembly  to  have  been  the  offspring  of  necessity;  to  have  grown  out  of 
that  state  of  suspense  produced  by  the  reserved  conduct  of  general 
Monck,  when  it  was  uncertain,  even  in  England,  what  kind  of  govern- 
ment would  be  finally  adopted. 

Col.  Samuel  Mathews,  late  governor,  having  died  in  January,  1659, 
(see  list  of  governors  prefixed  to  this  volume)  the  next  assembly  which 
sat  on  (he  13th  of  March,  1659-60,  elected  Sir  William  B-rkeley  go- 
vernor, by  act  of  assembly,  (see  act  II,  of  March,  1659  60)  precisely 
in  the  same  manner  as  they  had  elected  Mathews  governor,  at  the 
preceding  session  (see  act  I,  of  March,  1658-9.)  The  story  of  Sir 
William  Berkeley's  being  forced  from  his  retirement,  of  his  refusing 
to  act  under  an  usurped  authority,  and  of  the  erection  of  the  royal 
standard,  Sic.  is  a  mere  effort  of  the  imagination,  about  as  much  found- 
ed on  fact,  as  that  Mathews  was  the  "  last  governor  named  by  Crom- 
well," when  we  have  seen,  that  he,  like  Berkeley,  was  elected  by  act 
of  assembly.  The  truth  is,  that  the  election  of  Berkeley,  was  an  ordi- 
nary act  of  ihe  Assembly ;  and  the  name  of  king,  or  of  majesty  does 
not  occur  till  the  October  session  1660,  after  the  restoration  of  Charles 
II  had  been  announced. 

The  idea  that  the  people,  on  the  death  of  Mathews,  were  "  nolong- 
•:  under  the  control  of  authority,"  is  perfectly  consistent  with  that 
poetic  fiction  which  has  given  a  coloring  to  the  whole  piece;  but  it  is 
totally  unsupported  by  fact.  The  governors,  during  the  common- 
wealth, were  the  mere  creatures  o'i  the  house  of  burgesses,  depend- 
ent on  their  breath  for  their  political  existence,  and  annihilated  at 
their  pleasure  : — The  '  Representatives  of  the  People,'  as  they  proud- 
ly and  justly  denominated  themselves,  were  the  only  sovereigns  of 
Virginia. 

Mr.  Burk,  who,  with  propriety,  rejects  the  account,  given  by  Robert- 
son and  other  historians  of  the  election  of  Sir  William  Berkeley,  has, 
from  the  want  of  authentic  documents  (having  never  seen  the  MS. 
from  which  these  acts  are  printed,)  hazarded  a  conjecture  "that  Sir 
William  Berkeley  received  his  authority  from  a  tumultuous  assemblage 
of  cavaliers  and  aristocrats,   without  the  agency  of  the  assembly. 

See  Burks  Hist.  Vir.  vol.  2,  pa.  119,  120.)  It  appears,  however,  that 
he  was  elected  by  a  full  assembly,  composed,  it  is  true,  of  many  new 
members;  but  the  acts  passed  at  that  session  seem  to  be  sucb,  onlv 

.  the  exigencies  of  the  countrv  required. 


MARCH,  1059-60— I  lth  OF  COMMONWEALTH.  &9 

Loner  Norfolk^ .  Warwick  County. 

Capt.  John  Sidney,  Coll.  Miles  Cary, 

Mr.  Lemuell  Mason.  AT  .      r,        r,  .„., 

Major  Ldw:  Griffith. 

Northampton  County,       p..     ,   .,  ritl.    n       . 

r  J        Lltzaoeth  Lillic  County. 

Coll.  Edm'd.  Scarbrough, 

Major  Wm.  Waters,  Lt.  Coll.  Wm.  Worleich, 

Lt.  Coll.  John  Stringer,     Capt.  John  Powell. 

The  period  of  the  death  of  Mathews,  and  the  succession  of  Berke- 
ley, may  be  ascertained  with  tolerable  accuracy,  by  a  reference  to  the 
records  in  the  office  of  the  register  of  the  land  office,  formerly  the  se- 
cretary's— In  a  book  labelled  "  Patents  from  1655  to  1664,"  folio  377, 
will  be  found,  the  last  patents  issued  under  Samuel  Mathews,  as  go- 
vernor ;  which  were  in  September,  1659. — the  first  patent  issued  by- 
Sir  Wrlliam  Berkeley,  alter  his  ^-election,  (same  book,  folio  391)  bears 
date  the  22d  of  March,  1659-60:  several  other  patents  issued  in  his 
name,  in  March,  April,  iic.  1660 — (See  Patents  from  1655  to  1664,  fo- 
lio 392,  393  ) 

To  prove  the  fallacy  of  the  position  that  the  governors  of  Virginia 
during  the  commonwealth,  received  their  appointments  from  England, 
it  will  only  be  necessary  to  recur  to  the  pages  of  this  volume,  where  it 
will  be  found  that  they  were,  in  every  instance,  elected  by  the  house  of 
burgesses.  In  Xpril,  1652,  Richard  Bennett  was  appointed  the  first  go- 
vernor, under  the  provisional  government  (ante  page  371)  ;  in  March, 
1655  Edward  Digges  was  elected  (ante  page  408);  in  March,  1657-8. 
SamiK'l  Mathewes  was  elected  (ante  page  431,  2)  ;  at  the  same  session, 
a  contest  arising  between  the  governor  and  council  and  the  house  p{ 
burgesses,  as  to  the  constitutional  power  of  dissolving  the  assembly, 
the  burgesses  declared  all  former  elections  of  governor  and  council 
void  and  null  ;  but  immediately  after  re-elected  Mathews,  (ante  page 
502  ;)  by  the  fust  act  of  March,  1658-9  (ante  page  516  ;)  Mathews  was 
again  elected  ;  and  by  the  second  act  of  this  session,  1659  60,  Sir  Wil- 
liam Berkeley  was  elected.     It  is  ridiculous  to  suppose  that  this  fii\s> 

I'.tion  of  Sir  William  Berkeley,  before  the  restoration  had  taken 
plate  in  England,  was  produced  by  a  change  of  sentiments  in  the  peo- 
ple ;  that  they  should  have  anticipated  a  possible  event,  when  the  best 
informed  men  i>i  Rngland  were  held  in  awful  suspense,  by  the  tacitur- 
nity and  reserve  of  Monck  ;  doubting  whether  he  would  declare  foi 
himself,  for  Charles  II,  or  for  any  other  individual.  Let  it  be  retnem  ■ 
bered  that  the  restoration  took  place  on  the  29th  of  May,  1660,  and 
this  assembly  was  held  on  the  13th  of  March  preceding.  If  the  people 
of  Virginia  had  really  declared  in  favour  of  Charles  II,  would  ihcfi 
not  have  been  some  manifestation  of  it  in  their  public  acts  ?  But  no- 
thing of  that  kind  Appears.  The  style  of  the  assembly  is  precisely  suet, 
as  marks  the  proceedings  during  the  commonwealth,  and  their  acts 
evidently  flow  from  a  state  of  interregnum.  In  the  next  assembly,  in- 
deed, held  in  October,  16<>o,  Sir  William  Berkeley  is  called  "  Hi-  :\1  i 

•    iv's  Governor  ;"  but  this  was  after  the  restoration  was  effected 
and  he  had  prob  bly  received  an  appointment  From  the  crown. 

3  T 


n20 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


Yorke  County. 

Coll.  Christ'rCalithrop, 
Major  Josepli  Crowshaw, 
Mr.  Nathaniel  Bacon, 
Mr.  Robert  Baldry. 

JVeiv-Kent  County. 

Coll.  ManwaringHamond, 
Lt.  Coll.  Robert  Abraball. 


Rappahannock  County. 

Coll.  Moore  ffahfleroy, 
Mr.  John  Weyre. 

Gloster  County. 


Lancaster  County. 

Coll.  John  Carter, 
Mr.  Henry  Corbin, 
Mr.  John  Curtis. 

Northumberland  County. 
Capt.  Peter  Ashton. 

Westmorland  County. 
Capt.  Thomas  fibulke. 


Capt.  Francis  Willis, 
Capt.  Peter  Jenings, 


Mr.  Peter  Knight, 
Mr.  David  Cant. 


ACT  I. 


An  Act  for  taking  the  Power  into  the  Assemblies  hands. 

Preamble.  WHEREAS  by  reason  of  the  late  frequent  distrac- 

tions (which  Cod  in  his  rriercy  putt  a  suddaine  period 
to)  there  being  in  England  noe  resident  absolute  and 
gen '11.  confessed  power  ;  Be  it  enacted  and  confirmed, 
Supreme  pow-  That  the  giipreanie  power  of  the  government  of  this 
er  •:  how 

Assembly,  And  that  he  do  not  dissolve  this  Assembly  Restriction 

without  consent  of  the  major  part  of  the  House.  as  to  his  right 

to  dissolve 
■w  the  assembly. 

ACT   III. 

.in  Act  to  rtveale  all   Acts  disagreeing  with  the  Lames 
ana  Power  now  established. 

WHEREAS  by  the  frequent  reveiwes  and  altera-  Preamble, 
tions  of  the  lawes  of  this  countrey  there  may  be  some 
contrarieties  happen,  and  some  of  the  precedent  lawes 
be  adverse  to  the  lawes  enacted  this  Assembly  and  es- 
pecially to  the  power  now  established,  Bee  it  therefore   All  laws  incon- 
t  ncictcd,  That  all  precedent  lawes  and  clauses  in  lawes,   s,stent  wal' 

tllC   Dl*C 56 lit 

contrarie  to  the  lawes,  power  and  fforme  of  govern-   government 
men*  ;;ow  established  be  reversed,  repealed,  made  void  repealed, 
and  null. 


ACT   IV. 

An  Art  for  the   Peace  of  this  Collony  vnder  the  present 

Government. 

WHEREAS  by  reason  of  the  late  frequent  distrac-  Gamble, 
tions  in  England  there  is  there  no  absolute  gen'll.  con- 
fessed power,  And  necessitie  forceth  vs  (during  these 
distractions)  to  declare  some  power,  Vnder  which  this 
collonie  may  be  settled,  It  hath  been  thought  necessa- 
ry and  convenient  by  the  present  Burgesses  of  this 
Assembly,  the  representatives  of  the  people,  during 
the  time  of  these  distractions,  to  take  the  government 
into  their  ovvne  power  with  the  conduct  of  the  aunci- 
ent  lawes  of  England,  till  such  lawfull  comission  or 
comissions  appear  to  vs  as  wee  may  dutifully  submit 
to  according  as  by  declaration  sett  forth  by  vs  doth 
more  amply  appeare,  N<>w  whereas  many  disaffected 
persons  may  be  apt  and  forward  by  their  idle  words 
and  actions  to  say  or  do  such  things  as  may  be  prejudi- 
cial to  the  authority  and  government  for  the  present 
setled  or  established,  For  preservation  whereof,  Bee  it  Penalty  for 
ordained  and  enacted  by  this.  Assembly  and  by  the  autho-  d^a"ior.nof 
rtty  of  ne,  That  all  persons  whatsoever  that  shall   »i,e  present 

after  publication  hereof  say  or  act  any  thing  in  deroga-  govenuneot 


532 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


iion  ot'  the  present  government  hereby  established  shall 
be  proceeded  against  as  enemies  of  the  peace  of  this 
collonie  and  receive  punishment  accordingly. 


Preamble. 


Penalty  on 
sheriff  for  not 
mailing  due 
return. 


On  a  burgess 
for  not  ap- 
pearing at  the 
day. 


ACT  V. 

AnActforSherriffes  makeing  due  Rctumes  of Burgesses y 
And  Burgesses  meeting  on  the  day. 

WHEREAS  many  inconveniencies  arise  by  the  neg- 
ligence of  sher's.  in  raakeing  the  due  returnes  of  the 
Burgesses,  And  the  Burgesses  not  appearing  by  the 
day  by  which  meanes  the  charge  of  those  counties 
whose  sherriffes  and  Burgesses  have  performed  the 
tenor  of  the  writt  is  augmented  and  the  publique  buis- 
ness  is  retarded  ;  Beeit  enacted,  That  what  Sherriffsoe- 
ver  shall  not  before  the  day  expressed  in  the  writt  make 
returne  of  the  election  according  to  act  of  Assembly 
shall  be  fined  two  thousand  pounds  of  Tobacco.  And 
what  Burgesses  soever  shall  (vnlesse  obstructed  by 
some  law'll  impediment,  and  that  to  bee  adjudged  by 
the  House)  faile  in  makeing  his  appearance  shall  for 
ev'ry  day  he  shall  be  absent  after  the  day  appointed  in 
the  writt  for  the  sitting  of  the  Assembly  be  fined  three 
hundred  pounds  of  tobacco  to  be  disposed  off  by  the 
Assembly. 


Preamble- 


ACT  VI. 

An  act  for  the  suppressing  the  Quakers. 

W^HEREAS  there  is  an  vnreasonable  and  turbu- 
lent sort  of  people,  comonly  called  Quakers,  who 
contrary  to  the  law  do  dayly  gather  together  vnto  them 
vnlaw'll  Assembliesand  congregations  of  people  teach- 
ing and  publishing,  lies,  miracles,  false  visions,  pro- 
phecies and  doctrines,  which  have  influence  vpon  the 
comunities  of  men  both  eeclesiasticall  and  civil  en- 
deavouring and  attemping  thereby  to  destroy  religion, 
lavves,  comunities  and  all  bonds  of  civil  societie,  leave- 
ing  it  arbitrarie  to  everie  vaine  and  vitious  person 
whether  men  shall  be  safe,  lawes  established,  offen- 
ders punished,  and  Governours  rule,  hereby  disturb- 
ing the   publique   peace  and  just  interest,  to  prevent 


M  ARCH,  1659-60— 1  Ith  OF  COMMONWEALTH.  533 

and  restraine  which  mischiefe,  ft  is  enacted,   That  no  Penalty  on 
master  or  comander  of  any  shipp  or  other   vessell   do  master,of 
bring  into   this  collonie  any  person  or   persons  called  Sogig  in 
Quakers,  vndcr  the  penalty  of  one  hundred  pounds  ster-  quakers. 
ling  to  be  leavied  vpon  him   and  his  estate   by  order 
from  the  Governour  and  Council    or  the  comissioners 
in  the   severall   counties   where  such  shipps  shall  ar- 
rive, That  all  such  Quakers  as  have   beene   question-  Allquakers 
ed  or  shall  hereafter  arrive  shall  be  apprehended  where-  to  be  appre- 
soever  thav  shall  be  found  and  they  be  imprisoned  with-  tended  a,\d 

.i-i       *  .         .         -Hi  ii.  ..  committed  to 

out  baile  or  mainprise  till  they  do  adjure  this  country  p,isontiii  thev 

or  putt  in  security  with  all  speed  to  depart  the  collonie  give  security 

and  not  to  returne   again  :  And  if  any  should  dare  to  ,oleave,he 

i  •   i  c  ii  colony. 

presume  to    returne  hither  alter  such  departure  to  be  Penalty  for 

proceeded  against  as  contemners  of  thelawes  and  magis-  returning, 

tracv  and  punished  accordingly,  and  caused  again  to  atyrdtiraTta 

depart  the  country,  And  if  they  should  the  third  time  be  treated  as 

be  so  audacious  and  impudent  as  to  returne  hither  to  felons- 

be  proceeded  against  as  lFelons.     That  noe  person  shall  Penalty  for 

enterain  any  of  the  Quakers  that  have  heretofore  been  entertaining 

j  i  i       t-y  i    s~>  -i  i  •    i  or  permittni'; 

questioned  by  the  (joveruour  and   Council,  or  winch  assemblies  of 

shall  hereafter  be  questioned,  nor  permit  in  or  near  his  quaken. 
house  any  Assemblies   of  Quakers  in  the  like  penalty 

of  one  hundred  pound  sterling,  That  comissioners  and  j)uty  0r  nia. 

officers  are  hereby  required  and  authorized  as  they  will  gistrates  an ,10t  ',er" 
bond,    he   shall  be  totally  debarred  from  hnveing  any  trade. 
trade  in  the  country,  Common  reason  prohibiting  those 
to  have  the  profitt  of  the  trade  that   refuse  to  submitt 
to  the  lawes  or  endeavour  to  destro}'  the  priviledges  of 
a  country  they  trade  with,  Bee  it  also  ffurther  enacted..  Penalty  for 
That  what   person  or  persons  soever  shall  presume  to  trading- with 
trade   with  any  master,   merchant  or  mariner  of  any 
shipp,  barque  or  vessell  before  he  hath  seen  the  certi- 
ficate or  hath  certaine  notice,  That  he  the  said  master 
hath    passed    bond   according  to  the  tenor  of  this  act, 
Then    the  person   so  offending  to  pay  2000  lb.  of  to- 
bacco for  a  fine  to  the  collector  of  the  said  imposition, 
who  is   herebj    required  to  make  diligent  enquiry  of 
such  offences  for  the  vse  of  the  countrey. 

The  condition  of  this  obligation  is  such,  That  if  the  co°n,Htionof 
above  bound  shall  well  and  the  bond. 


536  LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA 


peaceably  behave  and  abears  himselfe  towards  all  the 
inhabitants  of  this  countfey  and  also  towards  all  shipps 
and  vessells-,  tradeiug  hither  tVotn  any  piace  or  places 
in  amity  with  the  people  of  England  and  this  place 
without  molesting,  either  the  merchants,  masters  or 
marryners  of  the  said  shipp  or  vessells,  either  on  land 
or  aboard,  also  if  they  shall  according  to  law  well  and 
truly  p^y  or  cause  to  be  paid  the  severall  port  charges 
and  castle-duties  att  the  appointed  places  to  the  respec- 
tive officers  authorized  to  receive  the  same,  And  also 
if  they  shall  before  their  departure  out  of  this  country 
give  good  caution  that  in  case  they  discharge  not  their 
vessells  at  some  port  within  the  English  dominions  in 
Europe,  then  to  pay  for  each  hogshead  of  tobacco  by 
them  exported  ienn  shillings  sterling,  and  if  they  shall 
not  carry  any  passenger  out  of  this  collonie  but  such 
as  shall  legally  procure  a  passe  out  of  the  secretaries  of- 
fice, And  if  they  shall,  before  their  loading,  make  en- 
trie  of  their  shipps  and  when  full  take  out  theire  dis- 
patches for  the  same,  Then  this  obligation  to  be  void. 


ACT  X. 

An  Act  (for  Tenne  Shillings  a  Hogshead  imposed  on 
all  shipps  that  do  not  discharge  inthe  English  Domi- 
nions in  Europe. 

Preamble.  WHEREAS  the  prudence  of  all  nations  hath  pro- 

vided for  the  defraying  the  publiquenecessariecharges 
of  the  countrey  rather  by  laying  an  imposition  vppon 
the  adventurers  for  the  staple  commooities  of  the  coun- 
try   by   the   exportation  of  which  the  greatest  advan- 
tage accrues,  then  by  taxing  the  persons  of  the  inhabi- 
tants, the    present    Grand   Assembly  endeavouring  as 
much  as  in  them  lyes  to  ease  the  burthen  of  the  people, 
And  takeing  into  consideration  the  greate  benefit  that 
accrues    to    other  countries    by  the  customes  ariseing 
from    our    commoditie   tobacco,    And    that   Virginia 
whose  peculiar   staple  it  is,  hath  from  it  nor  from  the 
Duty  «i'  10s.      adventurers  hither  no  publique  advantage,  Wee  have 
evM-y"boea-        thought  it  necessary  and  convenient,    And  accordingly 
head  <>i  u>b.       have  enacted  and  confirmed,  That  all  merchants,  masters 
exported  Gf  shipps   and   mariners  tradeing  to  Virginia  and  not 

bound  to  a        bound    by  charter-party   to  returne  and  discharge  in 
Briiish  port,      any  of  the  English  dominions  in  Europe  shall  pay  for 


MARCH,  1659-60—  11th  OF  COMMONWEALTH,  53? 

everie  hogshead  of  tobacco  they  shall  load  aboard  any 
shipp,  barque  or  other  vessell  arriveing  here  after  the 
ffirst  of  August  next  and  net  bound  as  aforesaid  the 
summe  often  shillings  sterling,  either  in  money,  bills 
of  exchange  with  good  caution,   or  in  good  valuable 
comodities  at    twenty-five  pound  per  cent,  advance: 
Provided  allwaies,  That  all  adventurers,  inhabitants  of  Virginian 
this  country,  trading  in  bottomes  belonging  to  Virginia  owners  ex- 
owners  shall  be  free  from  the  said  imposition,  it  tend-  emi>ted 
ing  to  the  advancement  of  trade  here,  The  encourage- 
ment of  the  inhabitants  to  purchase  vessells,  And  of 
marriners  to  make  this  the  place  of  their  residence. 


ACT  XI. 

An  Act  for  the  anihilation  of  the  Councellors. 

WHEREAS  it  was  enacted  the  last  Assembly,  That  Act  I.  of 
Coll.   Samuel  Mathewes  should  be  Governour  for  two  March,  165* 
yeares,  And  the  Councill  of  State  fixt  during  life,  It  is  -,repe 
thought  fitt  and  enacted,  That  in  regard  the  then  Gov- 
ernour and  Council  dissolved  the  said  Assembly  and 
expressly  declined  the  said  act,   That  the  said  act  be 
repealed  and  the  priviledge  and   power  of  the  Secre- 
tarie   and    Council  of  State   annihilated  made  void 
and  null. 


ACT  XII. 

An  Act  for  establishing  a  Court  of  Admiralty* 

WHEREAS   by  daily  experience  wee  find  the  in-  Preamble 
conveniencies  that  happen  to  the  inhabitants  of  and 
traders  into  this  country  for  want  of  a  court  of  admi- 
ralty, Bee  it  enacted  and  ordained  by  this  present  As-  Gov.  &couu 
sembly,  That  the  Governour  and   Council  shall  have  cil constitute* 
full  power  and  authority  of  a  court  of  admiralty  to  cog-  admiralty, 
noss,   determine  and    administer  justice  in  all  things 
pertaining  to  seafairing,  that  shall  appertaine,  happen  Their  juris 
or  fall  out   (within    the  jurisdiction  of  this   collonie)  diction 
either  between  mariner  and  merchant,  or  mariner  and 
master  as  likewise  all  complaints,  contracts,  otf'ences, 
pleas,  exchanges,  assccurations,  debts,  counts,  char- 
ter-parties, covenants  and  all  other  writings  concern- 
ing lading  and  vnlading  of  shipps,  flVeights,  hyres  and 

3  V 


.338 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA. 


all  other  buisiness  whatsoever  among  sea-affairs  done 
on  the  water,  and  where  within  the  limitts  and  the  juris- 
dictions of  Virginia  or  the  lawes  and  cognizance  there- 
of, with  the  cognition  of  writts,  the  causes  and  actions 
of  reprisalls,  of  letters  of  marque  to  take  stipulations, 
cognitions  and  insinuations,  And  to  do  all  other  things 
without  which  the  jurisdictions  of  the  admiralty  can- 
not stand  or  bear  out,  To  make  clerkes,  marshalls  and 
other  officers,  for  the  exercising  of  the  said  jurisdictions 
to  arrest  and  putt  in  execution,  and  to  enquire  by  the 
oathes  of  twelve  men  vponall  offences,  (vizt.)  Against 
pyrats,  their  assistors  or  abettors,  out-traidors  or  re- 
ceptors, against  breakers  of  the  admirall's  arrestments 
and  attachments  against  goods  forbidden,  merchandi- 
zes not  customed  and  yet  shipt  and  transported,  against 
the  resisters  of  the  admirall's  officers  in  executing  pre- 
cepts against  all  sorts  of  transgressions  comitted  by 
seamen  or  any  others  any  way  touching  the  jurisdic- 
tion of  the  admiralty  court. 


Preamble. 


Penally  for 
a  servant's 
laying  violent 
hands  on  his 
master,  mis- 
tress or  over- 
seer. 


ACT  XIII. 

An  Act  that  no  Servant  lay  violent  hands  on  his  Mastei 

or  Overseer, 

WHEREAS  by  the  audacious  vnruliness  of  many 
stubborn  and  incorrigible  servants,  who  by  resisting 
their  masters  and  overseers  have  brought  many  mis- 
cheifs  and  losses  to  divers  pellicular  persons  of  this 
country.  Bte  it  enacted  and  ordained.  That  that  ser- 
vant that  shall  lay  violent  hands  on  his  or  her  master 
or  mistresse  or  overseer  and  be  convicted  thereof,  be- 
fore any  county  court  in  this  country,  the  same  court 
is  hereby  required  and  authorized  to  order  such  ser- 
vant or  servants  to  serve  his  or  their  said  master  or 
mistresse  two  yeeres  after  his  or  their  time  by  inden- 
ture, custom  or  law  is  expired.   , 


Preamble 


ACT  XIV. 

An  Act  for  repealing  an  Act  for  Irish  Servants. 

WHEREAS  the  act  for  Irish  servants  comeing  hi 
without  indentures  enjoyning  them  to  serve  six 
yeeres.  carried  with  it  both  rigour  and  inconvenience. 


MARCH,  1659-60— 11th  OF  COMMONWEALTH. 


539 


many  by  the  length  of  time  they  have  to  serve  being 
discouraged  from  comeing  into  the  country,  And  by 
that  meanes  the  peopling  of  the  country  retarded,  And 
these  inconveniencies  augmented  by  the  addition  of 
the  last  clause  in  that  act,  That  all  aliens  should  be  in- 
cluded, Bee  it  therefore  enacted  and  confirmed,  That 
the  whole  adt  be  repealed  and  made  void  and  null, 
And  that  for  the  future  no  servant  comeing  into  the 
country  without  indentures,  of  what  christian  nation 
soever,,  shall  serve  longer  then  those  of  our  own  coun- 
try, of  the  like  age  :  And  it  is  further  enacted,  That 
what  alien  soever  arrive  here  before  that  clause  was 
inserted  and  that  hath  been  by  vertueof  that  last  clause 
inforced  to  serve  any  time  longer  then  the  custom  of 
the  countrey  did  oblige  them  to  shall  be  allowed  com- 
petent wages  by  their  se^erall  masters  for  the  time  they 
have  overserved,  Any  act,  order  of  court  or  judgment 
to  the  contrary  notwithstanding,  Provided  ahvaies  that 
all  such  aliens  as  came  in  servants  during  the  time  that 
the  said  clause  was  in  force  shall  serve  according  to 
the  tenor  of  that  act. 


Act  85  of 
March,  1657- 
8,  repealed. 
No  distinction 
;is  to  service, 
betw'n  ser- 
vants of  any 
christian  na- 
tion. 

Provision  for 
aliens  arriv- 
ing before  &. 
after  former 
law. 


ACT  XV. 

.in  Act  for  the  Pay   of  Dutch   Masters  bringing  tit 
Runnaway  Servants. 

WHEREAS  by  the  articles  of  peace  with  the  Dutch 
it  hath  been  concluded  that  in  case  the  master  of 
any  runnaway  servants  that  shall  be  brought  into  this 
country  shall  refuse  to  make  payment  for  his  passage 
and  such  other  reasonable  costs  and  disbursments  as 
shall  be  made  appear  due,  that  then  he  should  receive 
his  pay  at  the  secretaries  office,  Bee  it  enacted,  That 
payment  shall  be  accordingly  made  there  by  the  secreta- 
ire or  his  officer,  either  in  money  or  tobacco,  if  to  be 
procured  at  that  time  of  the  yeare  or  else  in  such  other 
commodities  of  the  country  as  can  at  the  time  of  the 
demand  be  produced  to  make  satisfaction,  And  for  the 
raising  the  same,  Bcc  it  further  enacted,  That  the  se- 
cretarie  or  his  appointed  officer  shall  have  power  to  dis- 
pose of  the  said  servant  by  outcry  or  otherwise,  for  so 
long  time  as  will  raise  the  value  disbursed  for  him,  af- 
ter thf1  expiration  of  which  time  he  shall  be  returned 


Preamble. 


Payment  for 
apprehending 
runaway 
Dutch  serv'ts 
to  be  made  at 
the  secretary's 
office. 

How  reim- 
bursed 


■4  .:'/(*» 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


to  his  master  from  whence  he  ran  away,  and  serve  him 
the  remainder  of  his  time  by  indenture  and  the  addi- 
tional] time  imposed  by  act.  , 


Butch  &  ali 
strangers  of 
any  christian 
jtation  allowed 
a  free  trade. 
Assurances 
«f  protection. 


Duties. 
Uonds 


,Duty  on  tob. 
produced  by 
sale  of  ne- 
groes. 


ACT    XVI. 

An  Actjor  the  Dutch  and  all  other  Strangers  for  Trade- 
ing  to  this  Place* 

WHEREAS  the  restriction  of  trade  hath  appeared 
to  be  the  greatest  impediment  to  the  advance  of  the 
estimation  and  value  of  our  present  only  commodity 
tobacco,  B>  e  it  enacted  an!  confirmed,  That  the  Dutch 
and  all  strangers  of  what  Xpian  nation  soever  in  am- 
ity with  the  people  of  England  shall  have  free  liberty 
to  trade  with  vs,  for  all  allowable  comodities,  And 
receive  protection  from  vs  to  our  vtmost  powers  while 
they  are  in  our  jurisdiction,  and  shall  have  equall  right 
and  justice  with  our  own  nation  in  all  courts  of  judica- 
ture, Provided  they  give  bond  and  pay  the  impost  of 
tenn  shillings  per  hogshead  laid  vpon  all  tobacco  ex- 
ported to  any  fforreigne  dominions  and  give  bond  ac- 
cording to  act,  Alhvaies  provided,  That  if  the  said 
Dutch  or  other  forreiners  shall  import  any  negro  slaves, 
They  the  said  Dutch  or  others  shall,  for  the  tobacco 
really  produced  by  the  sale  of  the  said  negro,  pay  only 
the  impost  of  two  shillings  per  hogshead,  the  like  being 
paid  by  our  owne  nation. 


No  burge.-N 
of  the  present 
assembly  to 
accept  any 
fcther  office. 


ACT  XVII. 

An  Act  for  debarring  the  present  Burgesses  from  take- 
ing  any  Offices  that  may  take  them  offfrom\  being 
Members  of  the  House. 

WHEREAS  it  hath  bin  thought  fit  for  manie  im- 
portant reasons  to  adjourn  and  not  to  dissolve  this 
present  Assembly,   Bee   it  enacted,  That  the  same  be 

*  By  the  74th  act  of  March,  1657-8,  (ante  pa.  469,)  a  duty  of 
ten  shillings  a  hogshead  was  laid  on  all  tobacco  exported  by  tbc 
Dutch  or  other  foreigners,  in  any  vessel  whatever,  and  bound  to  any 
port,  excepting  only  English  vessels  bound  directly  to  a  port  in 
England.  This  is  another  conclusive  proof  that  the  colonists,  dur- 
ing the  commonwealth,  enjoyed  a  free  trade  with  all  people  in  ami- 
ty with  England 


MARCH,  1659.60— I  lth  OF  COMMONWEALTH.  541 

not  dismembred  of  any  presentBurgesse  by  being  made 
Councellors  or  sherriffs  vntil  the  disolution  of  the  As- 
sembly :  And  if  anie  present  member  shall,  contrary 
to  this  act,  presume  to  accept  of  either  of  the  said 
places  whereby  he  may  be  rendred  incapable  of  serv- 
ing as  a  Burgesse,  Bee  it  further  enacted,  That  he  pay  Penalty 
tenn  thousand  pounds  of  tobacco  fine  for  his  contempt, 
The  fine  to  bee  disposed  of  by  the  Assembly. 

ACT  XVIII. 

An  Act  concerning  Appeales. 

WHEREAS  the  act  restraining  appeals  is  found  in-  App(,als  ioi 
convenient,  Bee  it  therefore  enacted,   'I  hat  the  said  act  any  amount 
be  made  void  and  appeals  from  county  courts  toquar-  allowed. 
ter  courts,   and   from  quarter  courts  to  Assemblies  for 
what  value  soever  for  the  future  be   laid  open,  Provi- 
ded that   if  the   appellant  be  cast  in  the  court  he  ap-  Dama^osone 
peales  to  he  shall  pay  halfe  the  value  of  the  debt  to  the  half  the  debt. 
appellee  for  his  damages   beside  all  costs  of  suites,  Not  to  ex- 
Provided  that  this  act  extend  not  so  the  act  prohibiting  fr0m  Nor'amp- 
appeales  from  Northampton  county,  vnder  a  certaine  ton  county. 
value,  which  is  yet  in  force,  Provided  also,  That  no  ap-  ^°  «PP^al  u}} 

ii  i  mi   •      i  ■  i      »      i     i         •         final  judgmt. 

peale  be  made  vntill  judgment  be  passed,  And  thatju-  jur;es  to  as- 

ries  be  empannelled  to  enquire  of  the  damages  in  all  sess  damages 

inixt  and  reall  actions  by  the  court  where  the  appeale  on  aPP,|f:' 
is  tryed. 


ACT  XIX. 

An  Act  concerning  the  Trusting  of  Indians. 

WHEREAS  many  English  tradeing  with  the  Indi-  Preamble 
ans  out  of  an  inordinate  coveteousness,  trust  the  said 
Indians  with  more  truck  then  they  are  able  to  pay  for, 
And  after  makeing  vse  of  the  benefttt  of  our  lawes  with 
which  the  Indians  are  vtterly  vnacquainted,  imprison 
the  persons  and  attach  their  goods,  which  provocations 
may  in  time  contract  a  warr  vpon  the  country:  Bee  it 
enacted,  That  what  Englishman  soever  shall  hereafter  N?  recovery 

¥     ,.  .  ,  °  ...  ,       r  of  debts  from 

trust  any  Indian  with  any  commodities  or  truck  of  Indians. 
what  value  soever  he  shall  do  it  at  his  own  perill,  But 
shall  not  have  benefitt  of  any  arrest,  plaint,  suite  or 
processe  at  lawe  to  recover  the  same,  And  all  courts 
of  justice  and  their  officers  to  take  notice  hereof  and  to 
oroceed  accordinglv. 


642 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


ACT  XX. 


Preamble. 


Register  of 
marriages, 
deaths  and 
births  to  be 
kept  in  each 
parish. 

To  be  certified 
to  the  clerk  of 
the  co'ty  court. 


Penalty  for 
failing'  to  give 
notice. 


For  failing  to 
certify. 


Otlicer  ap- 
pointed by 
vestrv 


An  Act  to  record  all  Marriages,  Births  and  Burialls, 

WHEREAS  many  differences  arise  about  the  age 
of  orphants,  and  enquiries  are  often  made  for  persons 
imported  into  the  collonie,  of  whose  death  no  positive 
certificate  can  be  granted  for  want  of  registers,  Bee  it 
therefore  enacted,  That  every  parish  shall  well,  truly 
and  plainly  record  and  sett  downe  in  a  booke  provided 
for  that  purpose,  all  marriages,  deaths  and  births  that 
shall  happen  within  the  precincts  of  the  parish,  and  in 
the  month  of  March  in  every  yeare,  the  person  ap- 
pointed by  the  parish  so  to  do,  shall  make  true  certifi- 
cate into  the  clerke  of  every  county  to  the  intent  the 
same  may  there  remaine  on  record  for  ever,  And  if 
any  master  of  a  ffamily  or  any  other  whose  duty  it  is  to 
give  notice  and  information  to  the  partie  that  is  appoint- 
ed  to   enter  the  same  on  record  shall  faile  to  doe  the 


same  within  one  month  after  such  marri 


age, 


death  or 


birth  shall  for  every  such  default  forfeit  one  hundred 
pounds  of  tobacco,  And  if  such  persons  as  are  appoint- 
ed by  the  parish  shall  faile  to  make  such  returues  to 
the  clerke  of  everie  county  in  the  said  month  of  March 
as  aforesaid  shall  forfeit  one  thousand  pounds  of  tobac- 
co, The  one  moety  of  the  said  forfeiture  to  be  paid  vn- 
to  the  governour,  The  other  moety  to  such  person  or 
persons  as  shall  discover  the  same,  and  make  proofe 
thereof  in  any  court  of  record  within  this  collony,  to 
bee  recovered  by  the  vsuall  action  of  debt  in  any  of  the 
said  courts,  And  the  vestry  of  each  parish  vpon  pub- 
lication of  this  act  to  appoint  such  an  officer  in  every 
parish. 


Adjournm  t 
of  asseoiblv. 


ACT  XXI. 

An  Act  for  the  adjourning  of  the  Assemblie. 

BEE  it  enacted  and  confirmed,  That  this  Assembly 
be  adjourned  to  the  twentieth  of  March,  1660,  But 
if  the  governour  find  occasion  by  the  importance  of 
affaires  to  conveene  it  sooner,  It  is  further  enacted, 
That  he  issue  forth  his  sumons  to  the  present  Burges- 


MARCH,  1659-60— 11th  OF  COMMONWEALTH. 

ses,  who  are  hereby  required  to  make  their  appearance 
at  James  Citty  accordiug  to  the  tenor  thereof. 

Wm.  BERKELEY. 


THEODE:  BLAND,  Speak 


cr. 


543 


ORDERS^ 


OF  A 


&MMW  ASSHUB&I 


HELD  ATT  JAMES   CITTIE,  MARCH   13TH,  1659-60, 


Sir  Wm.  BERKELEY,  Kn't.  Governour  and  Capt. 
Generall  of  Virginia. 

Mr.  Theoderick  Bland,  Speaker. 

ORDERED  that  the  port-charges  and  castle  duties 
of  all  shipps  arnveiug  and  lading  in  any  the  ports  or 
rivers  within  the  jurisdiction  of  Virginia  shall  be  paid 
to  the  honourable  Sir  William  Berkeley,  Knight,  Go- 
vernour and  Captain  Generall  of  of  Virginia,  att  the 
severall  places  and  to  the  severall  persons  by  him  ap- 
pointed to  receive  the  same,  And  it  is  further  ordered, 
That  all  such  ships  as  have  arrived  in  any  part  of  this 
countrey  since  the  decease  of  the  right  late  honourable 
the  Governour,  Coll.  Samuell  Mathewes,  In  case  they 
have  not  alreadie  paid  the  said  port-charges  and  castle- 
duties  forthwith  make  payment  of  the  same  to  the  said 
honourable  Sir  Wm.  Berkeley,  kn't.  or  his  order,  And 
in  case  any  shipps  have  gone  out  of  the  country  without 
payment  made  as  aforesaid,  It  is  then  ordered,  That 
imediately  after  their  next  returne  into  the  countrey 
payment  may  be  made  accordingly  for  the  vse  aforesaid. 
According  to  act  of  Assembly  in  that  case  provided, 


Port  charge  a 
and  castle- 
duties  payable 
to  Sir  Wm. 
Berkeley- 


Provision  in 
case  of  ship? 
which  arriv- 
ed after  the 
death  of 
Mathcvc- 


"  These  appear  to  be  Resolutions  of  the  assembly,  on  private  and 
local  subjects,  as  contra  distinguished  from  Ads,  which  are  of  genera' 
-  oncern 


J44 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


And  all  persons  that  by  vertue  of  any  power  now  or 
formerly  granted  them  have  received  the  said  port- 
charges  and  castle-duties  are  hereby  ordered  to  make 
present  payment  of  what  they  have  soe  received  vnto 
the  said  honourable  Sir  William  Berkeley  or  his  order. 


Declination 
of  the  house 
assigning 
reasons  for 
assuming  the 
powers  of  go- 
vernment. 


ORDERED,  That  the  declaration  alreadie  drawne 
vp  and  read  in  the  House  demonstrating  the  reasons 
and  grounds  of  the  Assemblies  assumeing  the  power 
of  the  government  be  forthwith  proclaimed  and  pub- 
lished, And  the  declaration  recorded.* 


Sir  William 
Berkeley  de- 
sires the  ad- 
vice and  con- 
currence of 
the  late  coun- 
cil on  his  ac- 
ceptance of 
the  govern- 
ment. 


WHEREAS,  the  honourable  Sir  William  Berkeley 
desired  the  advice  of  the  late  Councellf  and  their  con- 
currence in  his  acceptance  of  the  government,  It  is  or- 
dered, That  he  have  the  free  liberty  of  treating  with 
them,  And  that  his  letter  and  their  subscription  ap- 
proving his  election  be  recorded. 


Sir  William 
Berkeley's 
acceptance 
of  the  office 
of  governor. 


ORDERED,  That  the  declaration  of  Sir  William 
Berkeley,  Kn't.  to  be  governour  and  Capt.  Gen- 
nerall  of  Virginia,  and  to  enjoy  the  obedience  of  the 


*  This  declaration  has  probably  been  lost  with  many  oilier  public 
records  of  the  colony.  Its  import  may,  however,  be  discovered  in  the 
lirst  act  of  March,  1659  60  ;  which  assigns  as  a  reason  for  taking  the 
government  into  the  assembly's  hands,  "  that  there  was  no  resident, 
absolute  and  general  confessed  power  in  England. — This,  doubtless 
had  an  allusion  to  the  interregnum  in  that  country  ;  it  being  between 
"he  resignation  of  Richard  Cromwell,  on  the  22d  of  April,  1659,  and 
the  restoration  of  Charles  II.  on  the  29th  of  May,  1660. 

t  By  the  first  act  of  March,  1(558-9,  Samuel  Mathewes  was  elected 
governor  for  two  years,  the  existing  councillors  were  declared  to  be 
the  Council  of  State,  and  future  councillors  were  to  hold  their  office 
for  life,  removable  only  by  the  Grand  Assembly,  for  high  misdemeanors. 
The  governor  and  council  having  negatived  that  act,  as  appears  by  thft 
Xlth  act  of  March,  1659-60,  and  Mathewes  being  moreover  dead,  it 
might  well  be  doubted,  whether  there  was,  al  (his  time,  any  executive 
government  in  Virginia.  This  state  of  things  probably  gave  rise  to  the 
above  resolution,  and  the  election  of  Berkeley  as  governor.  If  the 
royal  standard  had,  in  truth,  been  erected,  as  represented  by  all  the 
English  historians,  surely  we  should  have  had  some  intimation  of  it, 
in  seme  of  the  proceedings  of  this  assembly. 


MARCH,  1659-60—1  lth  OF  COMMONWEALTH.  545 

people  be  forthwith  proclaimed  by  the  high  sherriff  of 
■James  Citty  County  and  the  declaration  to  be  re- 
corded. 

ORDERED,  That  Collonell  Man  waring  Hamond,  Major  General 
according  to  the  desire  of  Sir  William  Berkeley,  Kn'u  «PP»'«"ed. 
Governour  and   Capt.  Generall  of  Virginia,   be  con- 
stituted, authorized  and  made  Major  Generall  of  Vir- 
ginia. 

ORDERED,  That  John  Johnson,  millright,  being  John  Johnson- 
a  Dutchman  be  for  the  encouragment  of  other  artifi-  »tln.,lt,('d  a 

r      ,  .  i-ii  i       •  denizen. 

cers  oi  what  nation  soever  admitted  to  be  a  denizen 
of  Virginia,  he  haveing  been  resident  here  much  lon- 
ger then  the  act  for  denizens  requires,  And  intending 
according  to  the  tenor  thereof  to  make  this  the  place 
jf  his  future  residence,  Therefore  vpon  oath  taken  ac- 
cording to  act,  his  letters  of  denization  are  ordered  to 
issue  forth. 


WHEREAS  Richard  Bushrod  exhibiting  at  petition  Bushrod  vs. 

3gainst  Thomas  Brereton  about  a  parcell    of  land  in  Breretoo, re- 

Potomack   River,   which  land   the  said  Bushrod  pre-  trial  at  law 

lends  the  said  Brereton  surreptitiously  procured  order  this  suit  being 

to  pattent,  he  is  referred  to  take  his  co-.irse  against  the  fxti  a  judicially 

•' ,    r>  ,  ,  .  .  .  P  hio  t  in  the 

said  tfatreton  at  the  comon  law,  this  petition  extra-  assembly, 
judicially  brought  into  the  Assembly. 


WHEREAS  severall  parishes  have  exhibited  to  this  No  shei-ifl" 
Assembly  their  complaints  against  the  sherriiTes  of  the  sh;1"  ,efuse 

•'.'".  ,  c    toholdanelec 

county  lor  rctuscing  to  take  notice  or  make  returne  ot    tion  for  a  pa- 
the  Burgesses  by  them  elected,  Whereby    their    pri-  rochialbur- 
viledgesgraunted;them  by  the  law  have  been  infringed,  uuestcdltbVth.- 
It  is  therefore  ordered  that  no  sherriiTfor  the  future  vp-   vestrv 
on  the  desire  of  the  vestry  to  have  a  parochial  Bur- 
gesse  manifested  to  him   shall  refuse  to  convene  the 
people  at  a  certaine  time  and  convenient  place,  And  be 
there  present  to  take  oft*  their  election  and  accordingly 
to  returne  their  Burgesse- 


ORDERED,  That   the  comiltee  lor  auditing  the   p0w«i  ... 
accompts  of  the  collectors  of  two  shilling  per  hhd.  be  committee  . 

3W 


546 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


audit  collect- 
or's acco'ts. 


impowered  to  examine  wktnesses,  administer  oathes, 
and  all  other  legall  meanes  to  vse,  whereby  the  truth 
of  the  said  accompts  may  be  the  more  certainly  mani- 
fested. 


Govrmay  ORDERED,  That  the  honourable  Sir  Wm.  Berkc- 

elect  one  mem-  ]ey  may  at  [Hs  pleasure  elect  &  swear  one  person  to 

coundl'who  De  °f  llie  Couneell  of  State,  Provided  he  be  no  mem- 

skull  not  be  a  ber  of  this  House. 

member  of 

the  house.  ' '      "" 


Salary  of  the 
governor. 


ORDERED,  That  the  honourable  Sir  William 
Berkeley,  Knight,  shall  be  allowed  for  his  support  of 
the  government  besides  castle-duties  and  lycences, 
seaven  hundred  pounds  sterling  out  of  the  imposition 
of  the  two  shillings  per  hogshead  and  fifty  thousand 
pounds  of  tobacco  out  of  the  levy,  And  the  customes 
of  all  Dutch  vessells  tradeing  hither  from  the  Mana- 
dos  if  anv  such  come. 


Suits  against 
executors  of 
Samuel  Ma- 
thewes  remov- 
to  q'r.  court. 


WHEREAS  there  are  severall  actions  entred  a- 
gainsithe  executors  of  the  estate  ofSamuell  Mathewes, 
Esq.  deceased  to  the  county  court  of  James  Cittie, 
Which  actions  the  executors  have  desired  might  be 
heard  before  the  Governour  an  1  Council,  //  is  accord- 
ingly ordered,  That  all  the  said  suites  shall  be  heard  on 
the  sixth  day  of  the  next  quarter  court,  Provided  the 
executors  give  notice  to  the  severall  creditors  that  they 
may  then  and  not  before  attend  to  prosecute. 


Writ  of  ease  ORDERED,  That  Robert  Lawrence  according  to 

grated  to  a      hjs  petiLl011  nave  a  Wrilt  of  ease  granted  him  from  his 
commit,  r.  .       r        ,„    .  .   °        .       .  r 

of  co'ry  court,    future  officiateing  as  a  comissioner  in  the  county  of 

Nanzemund. 


Permission 
to  c:irry  an 
Indian  boy 
into  iingland. 


ORDERED,  That  John  Beauchamp,  merchant,  be 
permitted  to  carry  his  Indian  boy  into  England,  Pro- 
vided that  at  the  county  court  in  Charles  Cittie  Countie 
he  make  it  appeare  that  he  hath  the  consent  ol  the  said 
Indian  boy's  parents  soe  to  doe. 


MARCH,  1659-60— 11th  OF  COMMONWEALTH.  547 

WHEREAS  the  king  of  Wcanoak  hath  shewed  that  Protection 
by  reason  of  many  disadvantageous  bargaines,  made  from  arres,s 
with  the  English  his  debts  are  at  present  greater  then  fhTkingof 
his  abilHties  to  pay,  sne  that  he  hath  by  his  English    Weanoak. 
creditors   bin   imprisoned    whereby    much  detriment 
hath  a  cere  wed  to  the  publique,  It  is  according  to  his 
petition  wherein  he  offers  security  ordered  that  a  pro- 
tection be  granted  him  against  ail  arrests  for  any  ac- 
tion of  debt  vntill  the  first  of  March  next,  of  which  all 
sherriffes  and  their  deputies  are  required  to  take  no- 
tice and  commanded  not  to  serve  any  writt  or  warrant 
vpon   him,  before  the  said  first  of  March  as  they  will 
answer  the  contempt  at  their  perill. 


WHEREAS  the  many   important  favours  and  ser-  John  West 
vices  rendred   to  the  coimtrey  of  Virginia  by  the  no-  and  »'amily 
ble  family  of  the  West,  predecessors  to  Mr.  John  West,  %™ j^ 
their  now  only  survivor,  claim  at  least  that  a  gratefull  in  considera- 
remembrance  of  their  former  merrits  be  still  continu-  tionofthe 
ed  to  their  survivor.  It  is  ordered.  That  the  levies  of  hil  ancestors 
the  said  master  West  and  tits  ffamily  be  remitted,  and 
that  he    be  exempted  from  payment  thereof  during 
life. 


IT  is  agreed  vpon  in  the  House,  That  the  nomina-  Governor  to 
tion  and  choice  of  the  several!  collectors  of  the  impo-   appointcot- 
sition  of  two  and  term  shillings  per  hhd.  of  tobacco  be  po^duties* 
wholly  referred  to  the  consideration  of  the  honourable 
Sir  William  Berkeley,  Knight. 


ORDERED,  That  according  to  the  desire  of  the  Wm.Ciai- 
honourable    Sir    William    Berkeley,     Coll.     William   borneappoiafc 
Claiborne  bee  confirmed  in  the  office  of  Secrelarie  of  ^retaryof 
State. 


ORDERED,  That  Coll.  Thomas  Swann  pay  thir-  j^m'ta^t 

ty  fom  pounds  six  shillings  and  nine  pence  being  the  Thog.  Swan 

ballance  of  his  accomnt  of  collection  for  the  vse  of  the  !^,,:il;,,,il"duc 

I  lad  the  public 

puMiquc  to  such  person  or  persons  as  the  Assemblie 
*hall  appoint. 


54S 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 


Discoveries 
authorised  &. 
encouraged. 


WHEREAS  it  hath  been  formerly  granted  by  act 
of  Assemblie  in  one  thousand  six  hundred  fourty  and 
one,  And  by  order  of  Assembly  in  one  thousand  six 
hundred  ffifty  and  two,  ffor  encouragement  of  disco- 
verers to  the  westward  and  southward  of  this  countrey, 
granting  all  profitts  ariseing  thereby  for  fourteen 
yeeres,  It  is  by  this  Assembly  ordered,  That  Mr.  Fran- 
cis Hamond  and  his  associates  either  joyntly  or  sever- 
ally may  discover,  And  shall  enjoy  such  benefitts,  pro- 
fitts &  trades  for  fourteen  yeeres  as  he  or  they  have 
found  or  shall  find  out  in  places  where  no  English  ever 
have  been  or  discovered  or  have  had  perticular  trade, 
And  to  take  vp  such  lands  by  patients  (proving  their 
rights)  as  they  shall  think  good,  not  excluding  others 
alter  their  choice  (from  takeing  vp  lands  and  planting 
in  those  now  new  discovered  places  as  in  Virginia  now 
is  vsed,)  But  wholly  from  the  trade  during  the  said 
fourteen  yeeres,  that  being  wholly  appropriated  to  the 
said  Francis  Hamond  and  his  associates. 


Cary  vs 
Br>  wcr. 
Right  of 
common  ad- 
judged to  in- 
habitants of 
Stanley  hun- 
dred, 


WHEREAS  a  suite  hath  long  depended  between 
Mr.  Miles  Cary  and  Mr.  John  Brewer,  proprietor  ot 
land  in  Stanley  Hundred  and  Mr.  John  Harlowe  about 
ffiftie  acres  of  land  given  by  order  of  the  Governour 
and  councell  in  the  yea  re  one  thousand  six  hundred 
thirty-one,  for  a  com'on  vnto  the  inhabitants  of  the 
said  Stanly  Hundred  which  grant  of  the  Governour 
and  Councell  appearing  valid  by  the  Grand  Charter 
exhibitted  to  the  comittee,  It  is  therefore  ordered. 
That  the  said  fifty  acres  be  confirmed  to  the  said  in- 
habitants of  Stanly  Hundred  according  to  the  grant, 
And  that  the  pat  tent  for  the  same  granted  to  Mr.  Har- 
lowe be  made  void  and  null. 


Escheated  WHEREAS  John  Hope,  lately  of  New-Kent,  died 

land,  for  want    in testate,  and  at  the  time  of  his  death,    was  possessed 

how  disposed     °f  a  certain  divident  of  land  to  which  no  heire  as  yet 

of.  hath    appeared   to  make  claime,  And  John  Barber, 

administrator  of  the  said  Hope's  estate   haveing   still 

assets  in  his   hands,   And    the  county  of  New-Kent 

haveing  paid  above  two  thousand  pounds  of  tobacco  tor 

accompt  of  the  said  Hope's  debt,  It  is  therefore  ordered. 


MARCH,  1G59-60—  11th  OF  COMMONWEALTH.  549 

that  the  said  land  remain  in  the  possession  of  the  co- 
missioners  of  the  said  county  of  New-Kent  for  the  vse 
of  the  county  vntil  an  heire  appeare. 

WHEREAS  Edward  Prescott  on  the  third  day  of  Prescott  vs. 
December  in  the  year  one  thousand  six  hundred  fifty  Andrewes. 
and    nine    obtained   an    order   of  the  quarter   court  awarded68* 
against    William    Andrewes  for  four  hundred  and  sea- 
ventie  pound  sterling,  It  is  ordered,  That  a  supersedeas 
be  granted  to  the  said  Andrewes  to  make  stay  of  exe- 
cution vpon    the   said   order,  Provided  the   said  An- 
drewes give  notice  to  the  said  Prescott  that  the  case  is 
to  be  reheard    the  sixth  day  of  the  next  quarter  court, 
And   that    he  give    good  security  for  payment  of  the 
damages  that  the  said  Prescott  may  sustaine  by  reason 
of  the   said   stoppage  of  proceedings  in  case  the  said 
Andrewes  be  cast  in  the  suite. 


WHEREAS  Mr.  Theodorick  Bland  petitioned  this  Bland  vs. 
Assemblv  for  damages  in  a  case  wherein  he  had  judg-  Dromorul  da 

11  ?,  ,,      ,„.„.  t\  *    mages  award 

ment  the  last  Assembly  against  Mr.  V\  ilhani  Dromond   e(j. 
who  was  attornie  of  the  Coheires  of  Basse,  It  is  or- 
dered, That  the  said    Dromond   pay    vnto   the   said 
Bland  two  thousand  five  hundred  pounds  of  tobacco 
damages  according  to  act  als.  execution. 


ORDERED,  That  two  thousand  pounds  of  tobacco  Wages  of  a 
be   paid  vnto  Mr.  Phillip   Mallary  for  his  officiateing  chaplain 
at  the  two  last   Assemblies  out  of  the   levy  in  Yorke 
county. 

ORDERED,  That   Mr.  Peter  Lansdale  and  Mr.  Preachers  at 
Phillip  Mallory  be   desired  to  preach  at  James  towne  next  asse,nb,v 
the  next  Assembly. 


ORDERED,  That  the  appointment  of  the  collec-  Appointment 

tors  for  gathering  the  imposition  of  two  shillings  per  °f  collectors 

hogshead  be   wholly    referred    to   the  honourable  Sir  sir  W.  Berk* 

William  Berkeley.  ley. 


THE  widow   Hudson  extrajudicially  bringing  into  Acausein 
the    Assembly    a    petition    against   Collouel   William   l!'e  ;tsseml)l>' 

.  J  r  o  dismissed  as, 

Clayborne  is  referred  to  take  her  course  at  thecomon   extrajudicial!: 
lawe.  wrought 


550 


Arrearages 
due  to  Sir 
Wm.  Berke- 
ley, how  col- 
lected and 
paid. 


LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA, 

WHEREAS   it  appeares  that  there  was  levied  for 
Sir  William    Berkeley   vpou  the  county  of  Lancaster 
(which   then   included  the  whole  river  of  Rappahan- 
nock) twelve  thousand  six  hundred  pounds  of  tobacco, 
And  vpon  the  county  of   Northumberland,  including 
then  the   whole  side  of  river  of  Potomak   in  Virginia, 
twenty-one  thousand  eight  hundred  eighty-eight,  And 
that  there  was  more  due  to  the  said  Sir  William  Berke- 
ley ten  pound  per  pole  for  corne  to  have  been  paid  by 
the   then    tithables,  It   is  ordered,  That  in   case  the 
comissiouers  of  the   said    counties  or   rivers  haveing 
power  by  special  warrant  to   cause  the  then  collectors 
to  bring  in  their  accompts,  do  not  by  the  tenth  of  Oc- 
tober next  make  it  appeareto  the  Governour  and  Coun- 
cell,  That  the  said   tobaccoes   have  been  paid  to   the 
said  Sir  William  Berkeley  or  his  order.  That  then  the 
said   comissiouers  take  course  to  levie  the  same  vpon 
the  persons  delinquent  or  else  make  satisfaction  of  the 
premisses  als.  execution. 


Proceedings 

bi/noATbe         ORDERED,  That  none  of  the  transactions  of  the 
discussed  at       last  Assembly  bee  at  all  disputed  of  this  session. 

tli  ij. 


John  Har-  ORDERED,  That  in  case  Mr.  John  Harlowe  cleare 

loue  suspend-       1   •  \c  c      -I  1   "  i  •  i   ■         i 

edasacom-      bimselfe    of    the  objections  now  made  against   him  he 
missioner.         shall  be  restored  to  his   former  place  in  the  comission; 
but  vniill  then  he  stand  suspended. 


But  one  court 


ORDERED,  that  the  orders  of  Assembly  permit- 
to  foe  held  in         .  .  .  ' .  J    r 

Isle  of  Wight,  tmS  tl)e  comissiouers  of  the  Isle  of  Wight  county  to 
keep  two  courts,  bee  reversed,  made  void  and  null, 
and  that  they  keep  only  one  court,  and  that  to  be  held 
at  the  vsual  place  as  before  the  courts  were  devided. 


Burgesses 
wave  their 
privileges  as 
to  arrests. 


IT  is  vnanimously  agreed  vpon  by  the  Burgesses 
that  they  will  not  c  Lai  me  the  priviledge  of  a  Burgesse, 
Exempting  them  from  arrests,  during  the  time  of  the 
adjournment  of  this  present  session :  But  that  they  will 
be  ten  dayes  after  the  expiration  of  this  session  subject 
to  arrests,  Judgment  and  execution  against  their  es- 
tates but  the  persons  to  be  still  free. 


MARCH,  1659-60—  11th  OF  COMMONWEALTH.  551 

ORDERED,  That  vpon  an  amhentique  power  le-  Payment  di- 
gally  attested  from  alderman  Jackson  and  alderman  recl '(1 '"  ■*" 
Browne  of  Bristol   produced  to   the  eomittee  for  pro-  l,^'",,!)   W 
portioning  the  levy  they  shall  be   authorized   to  make  Brown. 
payment  to  their  said  attorney  of  twenty-two  thousand 
sixhundred   eighty-one  pounds  of  tobaccoe,  He  give- 
ing  them  a  sufficient  discharge  to  acquit  the  country 
from  any  further  claims. 


ORDERED,  That  seaventy  one  thousand  five  hun-  Expenses  of 
dred  pounds  of  tobacco  the  same  allowance  of  the  soul-  |he  las>  wfa"> 
the  Secretaries  office  by  the  first  of  September  next,At;d 

that  the  Governour  and  Councell  proportion  the  levy  Levy,  how 

made  this  session,  And  enquire  what  sherriff  have  been  aPPr«P"a*ed. 

delinquent   in    returning   the  writts  for  the  Burgesses  Sheriffs  to  be 

and  fine  each  offending  sherrine  six  hundred  pounds  fined, 
of  tobacco. 


Extracts  from  the  Minutes  of  the  Proceedings  of  the 
Governor  and  Council  of  Virginia. 

[From  a  MS.  belonging  to  Thomas  Jefferson,  President 
of  the  United  States,  which  was  purchased  by  him 
from  the  Executor  of  Richard  Bland,  deed.'] 

Dec.  Kith,  1631. 

BECAUSE  Edw.  Grymes  lay  with   Alice  West  he 
gives  security  not  to  marry  any  woman  till  further  or 
der  from  the  Governour  and  Council. 


552  LAWS  OF  VIRGINIA. 

March  25th,  1630.  Tho :  Tindall  to  be  pillory'd  2 
hours  for  giving  my  L'd.  Baltimore  the  lye  &  threat- 
ning  to  knock  him  down. 

6th  Sbr.  1631.  The  first  informer  of  any  slander- 
ous reports  of  Governour  or  Council  were  to  have  the 
fine ;  this  day  one  was  whipt  and  lost  his  fine  for  con- 
cealing such  a  slander. 

Henceforward  a  court  every  Munday  14night  to  be 
held  at  James  City,  one  Councellor  to  be  there,  all  of 
'em  to  take  their  turns. 

1  Feb.  1632  Two  maids  got  with  child  at  sea.  or- 
dered to  be  sent  back  again. 

Dec.  1633.  The  Compa's.  Governor  used  to  grant 
patents  here  and  after  the  compa.  confirmed  them,  and 
after  their  dissolution  the  K.  confirms  all  patents  made 
in  their  time  agreeable  to  their  laws. 

When  large  tracts  of  land  were  petitioned  for  and 
the  Guv'r.  and  Council  were  willing  to  grant  it,  they 
used  to  recommend  it  to  the  King's  com'rs.  for  the  af- 
fairs of  this  colony  for  confirmation. 

1639.  The  King's  letter  commanding  assistance  to 
Jflenry  L'd.  Maltravers  in  seating  Carolina  to  whom  it 
was  granted. 

1640.  A  midwife  administered  an  oath  to  a  preg- 
nant woman  and  the  child  born  in  marriage  adjudged 
another  man's. 

Stephen  Reekes  put  in  pillory  2  hours  with  a  paper 
on  his  head  expressing  his  offence,  fined  £  50  sterling 
and  imprisoned  during  pleasure  for  saying  that  his  ma- 
jesty was  at  confession  with  the  L'd.  of  Canterbury. 

Robert  Sweet  to  do  penance  in  church  according  to 
laws  of  England,  forgetting  a  negroe  woman  with  child 
and  the  woman  whipt. 

Francis  Willis,  Clerk  of  Charles  River  court  turned 
out  of  his  place  and  fined  for  speaking  against  the 
laws  of  last  Assembly  and  the  persons  concerned  in 
making  them. 


END  OF  THE  FIRST  VOLUME 


y 


IUBJBS 


TO   THE 


FIRST  VOLUME 


Of   THJ. 


STATUTES  AT  LARGE. 


ABSCONDING  DEBTORS. 

See  Attachment. 

ACCAWMACKE, 

One  of  the  original  counties  224. 
Name  of,  changed  to  North- 
ampton 249.  Disturbances  in, 
380.  How  quieted  380,  384. 
Expenses  of  war  in,  how  paid 
550. 

ACCOUNTS. 

Limitation  of  actions  on,  301. 
Exception  302.  Further  ex- 
ception in  favour  of  officers  of 
court  312.  Not  recoverable 
without  writing  485-6.  But 
if  the  debtor  will  not  deny  the 
debt,  on  oath,  the  court  may 
give  judgment  486.  Not  to 
extend  to  decedents'  estates 
486. 
ACTS   OF  ASSEMBLY. 

All  former  acts  repealed  177, 
180.  How  published  177, 
202.  Not  to  be  contravened 
by  proclamation  or  order  of 
court  264, 447.  Penalty  for  re- 
sisting execution  of,  270.  All 
acts  contravening  the  provisi- 
onal government  repealed  53 1 . 
ACT  OF  NAVIGATION, 

Passed  in  1651,  never  enforced 
in  Virginia  513,  note. 


ADMINISTRATION 

On  decedents'  estates,  where  to 
be  taken  302,  447,  479.  Let- 
ters of,  not  grantable  till  after 
third  quarter  court,  except  to 
widow  400,  479.  Order  of 
paying  debts  400.  Estate, 
how  sold,  400,  479.  Quietus 
401,  447,  479.  Surplus  es- 
tate, how  disposed  of  401 ,471 
ADMINISTRATORS. 

See  Executors  and  Administra- 
tors. 

ADMIRALTY, 

Court  of,  established,  composed 
of  the  Governor  and  Council 
537.  Their  jurisdiction  537- 
8. 

ADULTERY. 

Singular  judgment   of  the   Go- 
vernor and  Council  for,  145, 
note.       How    presented    240, 
310.     Punishment  of,  433. 
AGREEMENT 

With  the  Governor  of  Maryland 
as  to  commerce  276. 
ALARMS, 

Adjoining  plantations  to  assist 
in,  174,  198.  No  guns  to  be 
shot  at  drinkings,  except  at 
marriages  and  funerals  401-2. 


:x\i 


INDEX. 


A. 


ALIENS. 

All   alien?    compellable  to  serve 
as  long  as  Irish  servants  471. 

ALLEGIANCE.— See  oaths. 

Oath  of,  to  be  administered  To 
each  passenger,  on  his  arrival 
at  Point  Comfort  JG6,  191. 
Punishment  for  refusing-  to 
take  it  166,  191,  214. 
AMENDMENTS, 

To  the  Constitution  of  the  Unit- 
ed States  26.  30. 

AMMUNITION 

To  be  provided  for  each  planta- 
tion 127.  Payable  at  the  fort 
of  Point  Comfort  176,  191, 
218.  Not  to  be  sold  to  Indi- 
ans 219.  Or  lent  to  Indians 
255.  Penalty  for  bartering  or 
selling  to  Indians  441.  For 
lending  441.  Free  trade  al 
lowed  with  Indians  for,  525. 
Every  man  to  be  provided 
with  a  gun,  and  certain  quan- 
tity of,  525. 
ANCIENT  CHARTERS, 

To   the   colony  of  Virginia  57, 
118. 
ANCIENT  RECORDS, 

Relating  to  Virginia,  some  ac- 
count of,  76. 

APPEALS 

Allowed  from  monthly  courts  to 
Governor    and    Council    125, 
272,  477.     And  from  quarter 
courts  to  Assembly  272.    Da- 
mages  on,  272,   334.     From 
county  courts  to  quarter  court 
and  from  quarter  court  to  As- 
sembly 304.      When  to  be  al- 1 
lowed   334.     All   former  laws! 
concerning,  repealed,  and  newj 
regulations    concerning    345. 
Allowed     from    Apparnattock  I 
to  Henrico  and  Charles  City 
376.     From  county  courts  to' 


quarter  court,  and  from  thence 
to  Assembly  398.  Damages 
on  398.  Security  398.-— 
From  the  judgment  of  one 
or  two  commissioners,  435. 
Commissioner  from  whose 
judgment  an  appeal  taken, 
not  to  sit  on  the  trial  of 
the  cause  435.  For  what  sums 
appeals  allowed  from  county 
to  quarter  courts  477.  From 
quarter  court  to  Assembly 
477,519,520.  Damages  on 
477.  Question  referred  to 
the  Assembly  by  the  Govern- 
or and  Council,  as  to  the  right 
of  appeal  515,  516.  Allow- 
ed from  Northampton  county, 
for  what  sum  529.  Act  re- 
stricting the  right  of,  repeal- 
ed ;  and  appeals  allowed  for 
any  sum,  except  as  to  North- 
ampton county  541.  Dama- 
ges on,  fifty  per  cent.  541. — 
No  appeal  till  final  judgment 
54  i.  Juries  to  assess  dama- 
ges on  541. 

APPEARANCE. 

Of  defendants  in  civil  action, 
when  to  be  271.  Penalty  for 
failing  272. 

APPAMATTOCK, 

Inhabitants  of.  authorised  to 
hold  courts  376.  Appeals  to 
Henrico  and  Charles  City 
courts  376. 

APPRAISEMENT 

Of  decedents1  estates  170,  201, 
479.  Allowance  for  417.  Of 
goods  taken  in  execution  259. 
442. 

APPRENTICES. 

Penalty  for  dealing  with  other 
mens'  274-5.  Provision  for 
binding  out,  in   each  county 


A 


INDEX, 


A. 


\xvu 


ooti-~e  (le.  in- -d  fraudulent,  if) 
given  to  a  credit  >r  and  posses- 
sion accompany  it  249. 
BILLS 

Actions  on,  limitted  to  three 
years  from  their  date,  unless 
renewed,  sued  upon,  or  record- 
ed 390.  Extended  to  five  years 
484. 

BIRTHS, 

Register  of,  to  be  kept  by  mi- 
nister and  church-  wardens  !  55, 
158,  180,  241,  433.  To  be 
kept  by  an  officer  appointed  in 
each  parish  for  that  purpose,  & 
certified  to  the  clerk  of  the 
county  court  to  be  recorded 
542. 

BOVTS, 

Taking  away,  how  punishable 
170,  264,  460.  Size  and  con- 
struction of,  for  the  Canada 
trade  175,  200. 

BONDS, 

Actions  on,  limitted  to  three 
years,  unless  renewed,  sued  up- 
on or  recorded  390.     Extend- 


ed to  five  years  484.     Form 
of.  to  be  given  by  masters  of 
vessels,  not  to  interrupt  the  free 
trade  of  Virginia  535. 
BOOK  DEBTS, 

Limitation  of  actions  on  301. —  . 
Exception  302.  Further  ex- 
ception in  favor  of  officers  of 
courts  312.  Not  recoverable, 
without  writing  485-6.  But  if 
the  debtor  will  not  deny  the 
debt,  on  oath,  the  court  may 
give  judgment  486.  Not  to 
extend  to  decedents'  estates 
486. 

BOOKS, 

Penalty  for  disposing  of,  or  pub- 
lishing those  containing  the  te- 
nets of  the  Quakers  533. 

BOROUGHS. —See   Represen- 
tation. 
BREWING, 

E\ elusive  privilege  of,  in  wood- 
en vessels,  granted  to  George 
Fletcher  374. 

BRIDGES 

Established  at  public  expense 
269. 

BRIEFS 

Granted  by  the  Assembly  to  in- 
dividuals, to  collect  charitable 
donations  381. 

BRISTOL  PARISH 

Formed    on     Appamattox    251. 
May  hold  courts,  with  rifiht  of 
appeal  to  Charles  City  or  Hen- 
rico 4j4. 

BURGESSES. 

Origin  of  the  term,  in  Virginia 
121,  note.  Privileged  from 
arrests  125,  172,263,444.— 
Privilege  waved  550.  Their 
attendants  privileged  444.  To 
collect  the  taxes  ;  power  of  dis- 
tress ;  liability  for  neglect ;  to 


B. 


[NDEX. 


I 


\\\L 


return  a  list  of  tithables  143. — 
How   chosen  227,  333.     Acts 
concerning,  229.  May  be  cho- 
sen in  Lynhaven   parish  250. 
In  the  parishes  of  Upper  and 
Lower    Norfolk    277.     Their 
wages  paid  by  the  counties  267, 
421,  473.    But  parochial  Bur- 
gesses paid  by  the  parish  421, 
520.     Allowance  for  servants 
to  be  paid  in  work  267.  Num- 
ber to  a  county  limitted  299. 
Where  elections  for,  to  be  held 
300.  Oath  of  371,  387.   Have, 
ihe  election  of  all  officers  un-j 
der  the  provisional  government! 
372.     Governor  and  Council] 
to  be  members  of  373.    Mem-j 
bers  expelled  374.     Communi- 
cation  between  house  of,  and 
Gov'r.  Bennett  on  the  choice 
of  a  Speaker  377-S.     A  clerk 
deemed   ineligible  378.     How 
elected  and  returned  411,  475. 
Qualification  of,  and  of  voters; 
412,  475.  Right  of  suffrage  a- 
bridged  412.    Again  extended 
to  all  free  men  403,  475.  Clerk 
of,  who  appointed  424.     Sala- 
ry of  clerk  of  424.     Extracts; 
from  the  journals  of  the  house: 
of  495,  516.    How  subjects  to 
be  discussed  in  the  house  of 
497.     Proposition    to    reduce; 
the  number  of,   negatived  498. 
Contest  between  the  house  of,| 
and  Governor  and  Council,  as 
to  the  constitutional  power  of 
the   latter  to    dissolve  the  As-! 
sembly  499,  505.     The  Bur-! 
gesses  declare  that  they  have, 
in    themselves,  the  election  of 
all  officers,  and  are  not  dissolv- 
able by  any  power  in  Virginia 
502      \  member  of,  suspend- 


ed 507.  Reinstated  507.— 
Rules  of  proceeding  in  the 
house  of  507-8.  Members  of 
the  house  of,  qualified  by  the 
Council  508.  Form  of  the 
oath  508.  Parochial  Burgess- 
es, their  wages  paid  by  the  pa- 
rish by  order  of  the  vestry  520. 
Sheriffs  must  hold  elections 
for  545.  Collectors  may  dis- 
train for  wages  of,  if  payment 
refused  520-1.  Penalty  fox- 
not  meeting  on  the  day  appoin- 
ted 532.  On  sheriffs  for  not 
returning  532.  No  Burgess  of 
the  assembly  in  1659-60,  to 
accept  of  any  other  ofUce  540. 
BURIALS'— See  Deaths. 

Register  of,  how  kept   155,  158, 
1  SO,  24 1 ,  433.    Mode  of  keep- 
ing changed  542. 
BURK, 

The  first  historian  of  Virginia, 
who  seemed  disposed  to  detail 
the  public  transactions,  during 
the  commonwealth  of  England, 
with  accuracy,  5 13,  note.  From 
the  want  of  sufficient  docu- 
ments, sometimes  mistaken 
428,  note,  513,  note,  528,  note. 
BURYING, 

Fees  for  160.  184,  243 

BURYING  GROUNDS, 

To  be  inclosed  123,  161,  227, 
241.  Penalty  for  neglect  161, 
185. 

BUSHELS, 

To  be  sealed  170,  268.    Penalty 
for  neglect  170.  268,  473. 
CALENDAR 

Julian  and  Gregorian  393.   Note. 
CANADA, 

Si/.e  and  construction  of  boats, 
for  trading  to  175,  200. 


XXX)  i 


C. 


INDEX. 


C. 


CANOES, 

Taking    away,  how    punishable  j 

170,  264,  460. 

CANONS.— See  Church. 

CASK. — See  Tobacco. 

CASTLE  DUTIES, 

Contribution  for  127.  Duty  of  I 
powder &£  shot  payable  at  Point  j 
Comfort  176,  192,  218,  247. 
Repealed,  and  additional  duty 
payable  to  the  government  301, ; 
312.  How  recoverable  382. 
Inhabitants,  sole  owners  of  ves- 
sels, exempted  from  402.  Pay- 
able to  the  governor  423.  How 
payable  and  appropriated,  dur- 
ing vacancy  of  governor  533-4. 
Where  to  be  paid  534.  Collect- 
ors of,  to  be  appointed  534. 
Payable  to  Sir  Wm.  Berkeley 
543.  Provision  as  to  those  ac- 
crued after  the  death  of  Mat- 
thews 543. 

CATECHISM, 

When  and  how  to  be  taught  by 
ministers  157, 181.  Penalty  on 
masters,  children  and  servants 
for  neglecting  157,  182.  To  be 
in  the  afternoon  290.  Penalty 
on  masters  of  families  for  not 
sending  their  children  and  ser- 
vants to  be  instructed  in  311. 

CATHOLICS.— See  Popery. 
CATTLE, 

Doct.  Pott,  late  governor,  found 
guilty  of  stealing  145.  Female, 
not  be  killed,  unless  pa>t  breed- 
ing, or  likely  to  die  153.  Ex- 
portation of  female,  prohibited 
218.  The  7th  head  of  may  be 
exported  227.  Trespassing  on 
fences  244-5.  Act  giving  cer- 
tain lost  cattle  to  those  who 
found  them,  repealed  332-3 
How  to  be  removed  466. 


CENSUS, 
Of  inhabitants,  with   their  pro- 
perty, Sic.   to  be  taken  yearlv 
175,  200. 

CHANCERY. 
Proceedings  in  303. 

CHARLES  1. 
Beheaded  358,  note.  Penalty  for 
defending  proceedings  against 
him  360.     To  asperse  his  me- 
mory 360. 

CHARLES  II. 
Treason  to   doubt  his  right  of 
succession  360.     His  restora- 
tion 529,  note. 

CHARLES-CITY, 
One  of  the  original  counties  224. 
Courts  of,  to  be  kept  on  the 
south  side  of  the  river  426.  Two 
courts  to  be  held  in  497. 
CHARLES-RIVER. 
One  of  the  original  counties  224. 
Changed  to  York  249. 
CHALMERS, 
The  annalist,  quoted  by  Robert- 
son, but  inaccurate  as  to  the 
public  transactions  in  Virginia, 
during  the  commonwealth  of 
England  526,  note. 
CHAPLAIN, 
Of  the  assembly,  his  wages  549. 
Appointed  549. 

CHARTERS, 
Ancient,  to  Virginia  57,  118. 

CHATTELS, 
Conveyance   of  deemed    fraudu- 
lent, unless  recorded  418. 
CHESCAKE, 
Parish  of,  changed  to  Hampton 
257.     Settlers  on,  their  lands 
confirmed  257. 

CIIICAWANE, 
See  Northumberland. 

CHIPPOAKS, 
Parish  of,  established  27c 


INDEV 


C 


CHIRURGEONS.— Seephysi- 
cians  and  surgeons. 

CHRISTENING— See   births. 

Fees  for  160.  To  be  done  in  the 
church  183. 

CHURCH. 

Churches  to  be  built  122,  160. 
To  be  repaired,  when  and  how 
160,  185.  Absence  from  123. 
Uniformity  to  church  of  En 
gland  123.  155,180.  Ministers 
absent  from  123.  Penalty  for 
not  attending  144,  155,  180, 
434.  Ministers  to  confirm  to 
canons  of  church  of  England 
149,  277.  Preaching,  adminis- 
tration of  sacrament,  and  mar- 
riages to  be  done  in,  except  in 
cases  of  necessity  158.  Arms 
to  be  carried  to  174,  198  263. 
Church  government  240,  241. 
During  vacancy  of  minister,  all 
parishes  to  pay  levies  for  build- 
■  ingchurch,&purchasinga  glebe 
400.  Government  of,  during 
the  commonwealth  433.  Left 
to  the  disposal  of  the  people  433 

CHURCH      OVERNMENT, 

During  the  commonwealth,  how 
settled  433. 

CHUKCHI  \G, 

Fees  for  160,  1S4,  24  3. 
CHURCH  WARDENS, 

To  present  swearing  and  drunk- 
enness 126.  To  assist  in  keep- 
ing parish  register  of  marriages, 
births  and  deaths  155,  180.  To 
be  chosen    at    Easter,   yearly, 

155,  180.     Farm  of  their  oath 

156,  182.  To  present  ministers 
for  not  preaching  157.  Liable 
for  ministers  dues,  if  they  fail 
to  collect  them  160, 185.  When 
to  present  227.  How  many  to 
bo  appointed  240.  Oath  to  pre- 

3 


sent  certain  offences  240.  Thai 
duty  as  to  levies  and  collecti- 
ons 241.  Amenable  to  counn 
courts  291,  310.  To  present 
from  their  own  knowledge,  as 
well  as  the  information  of  others 
309,  310. 

CLAIBORNE, 

William,  appointed  secretary  of 
state  523. 

CLAPBOARDS.— See   Staple 
Commodities. 

CLERGYMEN.— See     Minis- 
ters. 

CLERKS, 

Of  quarter  courts,  their  fees  266, 
463-4.  Of  county  courts,  their 
fees  266,  464.  Fees  of  regulat- 
ed 295.  May  be  punished  by 
courts,  for  extortion  295.  To 
keep  records  of  the  proceedings 
of  courts  303-4.  Of  county 
court?8 


K. 


INDEX. 


JUDICIAL   PROCEEDINGS, 

Of  the  assembly  375-6,510,  545, 
&c. 

JULIAN  CALENDAR, 

393,  Note. 

JURISDICTION. 

See  Appeals,  Assembly,  county, 
monthly  and  quarter  courts. 

Of  monthly  courts  125.  Of  a  sin- 
gle magistrate  273,  335,  399, 
462.  During  the  commonwealth 
435,  462,  477.  Of  two  magis- 
trates 435.  Of  comity  courts, 
during  the  commonwealth  477. 
Of  the  quarter  courts  477.  Pe- 
nalty for  suing  otherwise  477. 
JURORS, 

The   number    used   in    criminal 

prosecutions  146.     Of  matrons 

209.     Their  qualifications  303. 

Allowance  313.  Demeanor  314. 

JURY, 

Trial  by,secur'd  to  those  who  de- 
sire it  273, 303, 474.  Of  whom 
to  consist  303.  How  to  be  kept 
303.  Allowance  to  313,  474. 
Their  demeanor  314,  474. — 
Grand,  to  attend  at  midsummer 
and  March  county  courts  304. 
To  attend  every  court  463. — 
Acts  for  grand  juries  repealed 
521.  To  assess  damages  on  ap- 
peals 541. 

JUSTICES   OF   THE    PEACE, 

Same  as  commiss'rs  of  monthly 
courts  169.  Jurisdiction  of  a 
single  one  273,  335,  399,  435, 
402,  477.  Of  two  justices 
435. 

KING, 

His  debts  to  be  preferred  351. 
execution  of  Charles  I.  p.  35S, 
note.  Penalty  for  aspersing  his 
memory  360.  Treason  to  deny 
the  right  of  Charles  IT.  to  the 
crown  359,  360. 


K1SKYACKE, 
When  and  how  settled  139.  En 
couragenrt.  to  adventurers  140. 
LANCASTER 
County  374,  Divided,  and  Rap- 
pahannock formed  427. 
LANDS, 
Of  each  planter  to  be  surveyed 
125,173,197.  Bounds  tobere- 
corded,  ibid.  How  disputes  a- 
bout,  decided,  ibid.  To  be  en- 
closed with  sufficient  fences  176. 
Of  orphans  protected  irom  saie, 
forfeiture,  he.  260, 443.  Settled 
through  mistake,  the  occupant 
to  be  paid  for  his  improvements 
260,  443.  Exception  349,  444. 
if  the  improvements  amount  to 
more  than  the  land,  the  settler 
compelled  to  take  the  land  at 
valuation  260,  443.  Orphans' 
land  excepted  260, 444.  No  per- 
son bound  to  re-survcy  262.  How 
obtained  for  importing  servants 
274.  On  Rappahannock,  settle- 
ment of,  postponed,  ib.  Grants 
for  lands  in  Rappahannock, how 
obtained,  ibid.  Deserted,  may 
be  taken  up  291.  Limitation  of 
actions  for  331,451.  Excepti- 
on in  favor  of  orphans  331,  451. 
Also  femes  covert  and  lunatics 
451.  Further  time  for  seating 
allowed,  on  account  of  tie  mas- 
sacre and  scarcity  of  corn  349. 
Commissioners  of  North'n  to 
take  acknowledgment  of  Indi- 
ans' lauds  39 1.  How  confirmed 
391.  Of  Indians,  not  alienable, 
but  by  consent  of  assembly  396. 
To  be  first  assigned  to  Indians 
456-7.  Proportion  457.  Hunt- 
ing grounds  allowed,  ibid.  In- 
cluded in  patents,  to  be  relin- 
quished or  purchased,  ibid. — 
Indians'  lands  confirmed   467 


L. 


INDEX. 


L. 


579 


Various  regulations  concerning  j 
ibid.  No  patent  valid  which  en-  j 
croaclies  upon  Indians',  ibid. — 
Lapsed,  or  deserted  land,  how 
acquired  468.  No  plat  of,  to  be 
delivered  till  six  months  after 
made  from  the  survey  5  IS. 
To  he  plainly  marked  Si  bound- 
ed ■ibid.  Penalty  ibid.  Elder  pa- 
tentees to  shew  their  bounds  to 
those  wishing  to  survey  adjoin- 
ing 519.  Consequence  of  neg- 
lect, ibid.  Exception  as  to  or- 
phans and  non-residents,  ibid. 
Bounds  of,  to  be  renewed  from 
time  to  time,  ibid. 

LAPSED  LAND. 

Lands  deserted  by  inhabitants, 
may  be  taken  up  by  others  291. 
How  acquired  468. 

LAWNE'S  CREEK, 

Parish      of,    established    229. — 
Boundaries  altered  277. 
LAW  HENCE, 

Henry,  president  of  Oliv.  Crom- 
well's council  510.  His  charac- 
ter 510,  note. 

LAWS, 

May  be  enacted  by  Northamp- 
ton county,  concerning  Indians 
and  manufactures,  to  be  con- 
firmed by  the  assembly  396. — 
Provision  for  revisal  421,  425, 
427.  All  laws  contravening  the 
provisional  government  repeal- 
ed 531. 

LAWYERS. 

See  Attomies  at  Law. 

Conference  between  the  house  of 
burgesses,     and     governor    and 
council,  as  to  the  constitutional 
right  of  expelling  them  495-6. 
LEAD. 

Act  requiring  all  lead  to  be  melt- 
ed into  shot  repealed  319. 
LEAP  YEAR,  393,  note. 


LEATHER, 

Exportation  of,  prohibited  307. 
Act  prohibiting  exportation  of, 
repealed  314. 

LECTURER, 

May  be  used,  in  absence  of  mi- 
nister 290. 

LETTERS, 

Answer  to  the  king's,  on  the  sub- 
ject of  staple  commodities  131. 
To  be  written  to  Samuel  Mat- 
thews &  Rich'd  Bennett,  while 
in  England  425.  To  the  protec- 
tor and  secretary  of  state  426. 
Public,  how  conveyed  436. — 
From  the  president  of  Oliver 
Cromwell's  council,  announc- 
ing his  death,  and  the  accession 
of  Richard  Cromwell  509-10. 
Proceedings  of  the  house  of 
buraesses  thereon  511. 
LEVIES.— See  Taxes. 

Duty  of  church-wardens  in  re- 
lation to  241.  Poor  exempted 
from,  except  parish  duties  242. 
Special  levy  for  the  governor's 
accommodation,  in  consequence 
of  the  civil  war  in  Engl'd  280, 
281-2.  When  public  levies 
payable  319,  334.  Sheriffs  may 
distrain  for  320.  None  to  be 
raised,  but  by  a  grand  assembly 
320.  To  have  a  preference  over 
all  other  debts  330,  450.  To  be 
received  by  collectors,  instead 
of  sherriffs  342-3.  Arrears  of,  in 
Isle  of  Wight,  how  collected 
383.  During  vacancy  of  minis- 
ter, for  building  church,  Si  pur- 
chasing glebe  400.  John  West 
and  family  exempted  from  pay- 
ment of,  in  consequence  of  the 
services  of  his  ancestors  547. 
LEOPALpUS, 

Ship,  forfeited  382-3.  Proceeds 
of  sale  of.  appropriated  385. 


obo 


L. 


INDEX. 


M. 


LICENSE, 

Marriage,  how  obtained  156, 
181,  241,  433.  Penalty  on  mi- 
nisters for  marrying  without 
332,  433. 

LIMITATION. 

Of  actions  on  accounts  and  book 
debts  301.  Exception  302.— 
Further  exception  312.  Of  suits 
for  land  331,  451.  Exception  in 
favor  of  orphans  $31,  451.  Al- 
so femes  covert,  &,c.  451.  No 
bills,  bonds,  or  written  engage- 
ments recoverable,  after  three 
years  from  their  date,  unless 
renewed,  sued  upon  or  n  coi  r  ! 
390.  Extended  to  judgments 
also,  and  limited  to  five  years 
483-4.  Exfcept  where  the  deb- 
tor  removes  out  cf  the  county 
484.  Of  clerks'  and  sheriffs' 
fees,  and  county  and  public  le- 
vies 484. 

LISTS, 

Of  passengers  to  be  delivered  at 
Point  Comfort  166,  191,  392. 
Of  taxable  property,  how  taken 
306.  Of  tithables,  when  h  how 
taken  361,388,  454-5. 
LITURGY, 

Of  the  church  of  England,  to  be 
observed  241. 

LORD'S  DAY.— See  Sabbath. 

No  journeys  to  be  performed  on, 

nor  goods  laden,  nor  guns  fired 

434.    Penally  ibid.    Servants  h 

others  to  attend  church  on,  ibid. 

LOWER  NORFOLK, 

Boundaries  of  228.     Finally  de- 
termined   247.     May  elect  bur- 
gesses in  each  parish  277. 
LYNIIAVEN, 

Boundaries  of  Lynhaven  parish 
250.  Inhabitants  not  to  be  ex- 
ercised   out  of  the   limits  of  the 


parish,  ibid.     May  choose  bur- 
gesses, ibid. 

MAIDS, 

Two,    got  with  child  at  sea,  or- 
dered to  be  sent  back  552. 
MAJOR  GENERAL, 

Of  Virginia,  appointed  545. 
MANSLAUGHTER, 

Woman    found     guilty    of,     and 
pleads  pregnancy,  jury  of  ma- 
trons find  her  not  pregnant  209. 
MARES, 

Exportation  of,  prohibited   463. 
MARITIME  CAUSES, 

County  courts  to  havejurisdiction 
of  466-7. 

MARKETS, 

Weekly,  established  in  James 
City  362.  Limits  363.  Con- 
tiacts  madp  within,  how  enfor- 
ced 362.  Ports  &  markets  es- 
tablished in  each  county  412, 
414.  The  last  act  repealed  397, 
476. 

MARRIAGES, 

Register  of,  to  be  kept  by  minis- 
ter &.  church- wardens  155,  158, 
180,  241,  433.  Fees  for  160, 
184.  Where  celebrated  183. 
How  156,  181,  241.  Of  ser- 
vants, without  leave  of  owners, 
how  punishable  252-3,  438.— 
Penalty  on  minister  for  marry- 
ing without  license  or  banns 
332j  433.  Guns  may  be  shot  at 
401.  Fees  for  marriage  licenses 
payable  to  governor  423. — 
Mode  of  keeping  register  of, 
changed  542. 

MARSHAL, 

His  fees  176,  201,  220. 
MARSHART. 

Compensation  to  capt.  Marshart, 
for  gun  carriages  171,  195. — 
Donation  to  his  wife  and  chil- 
dren 171,  195. 


M. 


INDEX. 


M. 


581 


MARSTON  PARISH  388. 
MARTIN, 

Solomon,  committed  for  slander- 
ing a  member  of  the  council 
515. 

MARYLAND, 

Compact  with  the   governor  of. 
as  to  commerce  276.     Dispute 
with,  as  to  boundaries  425. 
MASSACRE, 

Holy  days  in  commemoration  of 
escape  from,  the  22d  of  March 
123,  177,  202,  263.  The  18th 
of  April  290.  The  22d  of 
March  and  18th  of  April  459. 
MATRIMONY, 

How  to  be  celebrated  156,  181, 
241,  433.  At  what  hours  of 
the  day  ibid.  Consent  of  pa- 
rents and  guardians  ibid. — 
Where  158,  183. 

MATTHEWES,  SAMUEL, 

How  to  proceed  in  building  fort 
at  Point  Comfort  150,  175. — 
Guard  allowed  at  175.  Fur- 
ther allowance  to  177.  How 
paid  221.  Letters  to,  while  in 
England  425.  Governor  elect 
426.  His  rank  in  council  426. 
The  third  governor  elected 
under  the  provisional  govern- 
ment 431-2,  504,  516.  His 
death  528,  note.  Suits  against 
his  executors  removed  before 
the  governor  and  council  546. 
MASTERS  OF  VESSELS, 

Transporting  debtors  without 
previous  notice,  liable  for  their 
debts  200,  243.  So,  without  a 
pass  437.  To  give  bond  and 
security  not  to  molest  any  per- 
son trading  under  the  protection 
of  the  laws  of  Virginia  535. 
MEASURES.— See  Barrels, 
Weights  and  Measures. 


MECHANICS 

To  follow  their  trades,  and  not 
plant  tobacco  or  corn  208. 
MERCHANDIZE, 

Where  to  be  landed  215. 
MERCHANTS 

Encouraged  to  supply  the  co- 
lony with  goods  216,  217. — 
Dutch  encouraged  258.  Not 
to  retail  wines  or  strong  waters 
within  James  City  319.  To  be 
encouraged  476. 

MIDDLE  PLANTATION, 

Encouragement  for  settling  208. 
M1DDLETOWN 

Parish  498  9. 

MIGRATION 

Of  inhabitants  prohibited  321. 
MILITIA, 

Officers  of,  to  see  that  every  man 
is  furnished  with  a  gun  and  a 
certain  quantity  of  powder  and 
shot  525. 

MILLERS, 

What  toll  they  may  take  301, 
485.  To  provide  statute  wei'ts 
and  scales  348.  Penalty  for 
not  sufficiently  grinding,  or  for 
exacting  more  than  legal  toll 
348.  To  provide  statute  weights 
or  steelyards  485.  Penalty  for 
not  grinding  or  exchanging,  or 
for  exacting  more  than  legal  toll 
ibid. 

MINISTERS 

Absenting  themselves  from 
church  123.  Penalty  for  dis- 
paraging 124,  156,  181.  To 
be  first  paid  124,  207.  Who 
to  pay  them  tithes  144,  241, 
361-2.  To  conform  to  the  ca- 
nons of  the  church  of  England 
149,  277.  When  to  make  their 
presentments,  and  return  a  re- 
gister of  marriages,  births  and 


532 


M. 


INDEX. 


M. 


burials  155,  ISO.  How  to  ce- 
lebrate matrimony  156,  181, 
241.  To  preach  a  sermon  eve- 
ry Sunday  157,  181,  290,  311. 
To  catechise  children  ibid. — 
To  visit  the  sick  157-8,  182, 
290.       Their    deportment    158, 

183.  To  administer  the  com- 
munion 158,  1S3.  Their  al- 
lowance 159,  242.  How  col- 
lected 160,  184,  207,  243  — 
Tithes  of  calves,  Sic.  159,  !84, 
207.  How  collected  ibid.  Their 
fees    for    marriages,    &c.    160, 

184,  243.     Church-wardens  li- 
able for  their  dues,   if  tiny  fail 
to  collect  them  160,  185.    Their 
tobacco  to  be  carried   to   ware 
houses  207.      Altered  as  to  pay- 
ment of  tobacco  243.     To  ap- 
point deacons  208.     Act  allow- 
ing tithes  repealed  220.     How 
paid  in   1639,   pa.    226.     How 
presented,  inducted,  and  remov- 
ed   241-2.       To    reside    within 
their  cure    290.     When   a    lec- 
turer may  be  used  290.     Ves- 
tries  may  augment    their   sala- 
ries  328.      Penally  for  marry- 
ing   without    license    or    banns 
332,    433.      Refusing  to    read 
prayers  not  entitled  to  their  sa- 
lary  341-2.      During   vacancy 
of,    all    parishes   to   pay  levies, 
for  building  a  church  and  pur- 
chasing a  giebe  400.      Reward 
for   importing   418.       Minister 
and  six  of  his  family  exempted 
from    public   levies  424.     I  low 
and   by  whom    examined    ibid. 
None  but,  to  celeb.ate  the  rites 
of  matrimony  during  the  com- 
monwealth 433. 

MINORS. 
See  Infants. 


MONCK, 
General,    his    reserved    conduct 
528-9,  note. 

MONEY. 
Contracts  and  pleadings  to  be  in 
money  and  not  in  tobacco  216. 
Not  to  be  in  money  262.  Mo- 
ney debts  not  recoverable,  un- 
less contracted  for  horses,  mares 
or  sheep  267-8.  Again  re- 
coverable 417,  473.  Law  for 
coinage  of  308-9.  Pieces  of 
eight  of  whatever  metal,  to 
piss  current  410.  Law  repeal- 
ed 397.  Value  of  pieces  of 
eight  493.  Not  to  be  exported 
above  the  value  of  forty  shil- 
lings 493. 

MONTHLY  COURTS, 
Origin   of  125.     Jurisdiction  ib. 
Judges   of  ibid.      Appeal   from 
ibid.     Double  damages  on  ap- 
peals   ibid.     May    fine   persons 
of   quality  who   are  delinquent 
as  to   powder    127.       Form    of 
commission    to     commissioners 
of  132.     Jurisdiction  of,  as   to 
offences  against  the    act   limit- 
ing the  price  of  tobacco    163. 
Where   held    168,    185.     Com- 
mission to  certain  commission- 
ers 168-9,  186.     Power  and  ju- 
risdiction ibid.     Oath  of  com- 
missioners   169,187.     May  pu- 
nish   for    taking    away    boats, 
canoes  or  weirs  170.     To  pro- 
vide for  sealing  barrels  ibid. — 
Jurisdiction       extended      224. 
Name    of,    changed    to    county 
courts  273. 

MORATLCK.— See       Roan- 
oake. 

MORTGAGES 
Deemed    fraudulent,   unless    en- 
tered In  some  court  227.     To 


N. 


INDEX. 


N. 


583 


be  registered  in  a  quarter  or 
monthly  court,  or  be  void  248- 
9.  Not  to  extend  to  a  bill  of 
sale  of  estate  to  a  creditor,  ac- 
companied by  delivery  of  pos- 
session 249. 

MULBERRY  TREES 

To   be  planted    126,  420,   481. 

Act  for  planting  repealed  520. 

MUSTER 

Of  inhabitants  175,  200.  No 
writ  or  warrant  to  be  executed 
on  a  Sabbath  day,  or  at  a  mus- 
ter 457. 

MUSTER  MASTER  GENERAL, 
How  paid  226. 

NAILS. 

Penalty   for  burning  houses  for 
the  sake  of  nails  291. 
NANSIMUM, 

Name  of  Upper  Norfolk  coun- 
ty changed  to  321.  Commis- 
sioners appointed  to  ascertain 
buundaries  of,  and  of  Isle  of 
Wight  404. 

NAVIGATION, 

Act  of,  passed  in  1651,  never  en- 
forced in  Virginia  5.13,  note. 
NECOTOWANCE, 

Treaty  with  323,  326,  453. 
NEGROES. 

Singular  judgments  of  the  go- 
vernor and  council  for  lying 
with  a  negro  146,  552  When 
first  introduced  in  Virginia 
146,  note..  Not  to  have  fire 
arms  226.  Duty  payable  on 
tobacco  exported,  produced  by 
the  sale  of  them  540. 
NEWCOMERS 

Not  restrained  from  planting  to- 
bacco, or  exempted  from  the 
Indian  war  141.  Exempted 
for  the  first  year,  from  the  war, 
but  must  contribute  to  the  ex- 


pense   150.     Tax   on,   for   the 
fort  222. 

NEW  ENGLAND, 

No  person  to  remove  to,  with- 
out a  pass  from  the  governor 
200. 

NEW-KENT 

County  387-8. 

NEWS, 

Divulgers  of  false,  how  punish- 
ed 434-5. 

NEW  STYLE  393,  note. 
When  adopted  in  England,  and 
the  colonies  393,  note.  Vari- 
able and  irregular  manner  of 
writing  the  date  of  the  year 
before  494. 

NON-CON  FOR  MISTS 

Compelled  to  depart  the  colony 
277. 

NON  EST  INVENTUS, 

Proceedings  upon  return  of  466. 
NON-RESIDENTS, 

Their  lands  protected  from  loca- 
tion 519.  To  give  security  for 
costs  522. 

NORFOLK.— See  Upper  and 
Lower  Norfolk. 

NORTHAMPTON, 

Accawmacke  changed  to  249. 
Divided  into  parishes  249. — 
A  paper  subscribed  by  inhabi- 
tants of,  deemed  scandalous  &. 
seditious  380.  Governor  and 
secretary  to  quiet  the  discon- 
tents of  the  people  of  380. — 
Certain  commissioners  to  at- 
tend them  384.  Their  powers 
ibid.  Commissioners  of,  may 
take  acknowledgment  of  Indi- 
ans' lands  391.  Two  courts 
held  in  409.  May  enact  laws 
concerning  Indians  and  manu- 
factures 396,  476.  Appeals 
from  520,  541. 


584 


O. 


INDEX. 


O. 


NORTHUMBERLAND, 
Inhabitants  of,  to  pay  taxes  or  be 
called   off  from  the  settlement 
337-8.     County  of,  established 

352.  To  elect  burgesses  353. 
Patents  to  issue  for  their  lands 

353.  To  be  rated  for  public 
taxes  353.  What  inhabitants 
included  in  362. 

NUTMEG  QUARTER 

Parish,  provision  for  uniting  to 
Denbigh  425. 

OATHS 

Of  members  of  the  council  116. 
Of  allegiance  and  supremacy 
administered  to  the  governor 
and  council  and  burgesses  149. 
To  be  taken  by  persons  arriv- 
ing at  Point  Comfort  166,  191. 
Of  church  wardens  156,  182. 
Of  commissioners  of  monthly 
courts  169.  Of  burgesses  371, 
378,  508.  Administered  by 
the  council  ibid.  Of  sheriffs 
and  constables  during  the  com- 
monwealth 467.  Oath  of  se- 
crecy enjoined  by  the  house  of 
burgesses,  during  a  contest 
with  the  governor  and  council 
as  to  their  constitutional  pow- 
er to  dissolve  the  assembly 
500.  Oath  of  governor  pre- 
cribed  by  the  house  of  burgesses 
504. 

OBEDIENCE 

To  superiors  enjoined  121,  174, 
198. 

OCQUIIANOCKE, 

Parish  of,  established  374. 
OLD  PLANTERS, 

Privileges  of  124,  172,  197,  263, 
460. 

OLD  STYLE 393,  note.  When 
discontinued  in  England,  and 
the  colonies  393,  note.  Vari- 
able and   irregular   manner  of' 


writing  the   dates  of  the  year 
494. 

ORCHARDS, 
Act  concerning  226. 
ORDERS. 
See  Resolutions,  Rules. 
ORDINARIES, 

Rates  of  diet  and  beer  at  229. 
Keeper  of,  how  licensed  287, 
411,471.  Rates  of  487,  300>. 
446.  Debts  for  liquors  not  re- 
coverable 287.  Penalty  for 
fraudulently, mixing  liquors 300. 
For  exceeding  the  legal  rates 
300.  xMay  be  licensed  by  coun- 
ty courts  411,  471.  Rates  to  be 
fixed  annually  by  the  assembly 
446.  How  rated  during  the  ses- 
sion of  1657-8,  pa.  489.  Rates 
to  be  fixed  by  county  courts, 
from  time  to  time,  as  the  price 
of  tobacco  may  rise  or  fall  522. 
License  to  be  taken  out,  &  bond 
and  security  given  522. 
ORDNANCE, 

Compensation  for  carriages  for 
171.     Carriages  to  be  removed 
to  a  dry  place  175. 
ORPHANS, 

Their  estates  protected  from  sale, 
forfeiture,  &c.  260,  443,  519. 
Duty  of  their  guardians  260-1, 
443.  Penalty  for  dealing  with 
269.  Excepted  in  the  act  of  li- 
mitations 331.  To  be  bound  to 
trades,  if  the  interest  of  estate 
be  insufficient  for  their  educati- 
on 416.  To  receive  from  their 
guardians  their  estates  in  kind 

416.  To  have  the  produce  of 
their  labor,  after  17  years  of  age 

417.  Leases  of  their  lands,  how 
to  be  made  443.  Sheriffs  to 
summon  persons  to  render  ac- 
counts of  their  estates,  &,  clerks 
to  enter  them  ex  officio  550. 


p. 


INDEX. 


P. 


585 


OUTCRY.— See  Auction. 
OVERSEERS  OF   DECE- 
DENTS' ESTATES. 

See  Executors,  Guardian?. 
OVERSEERS  OF  SERVANTS 
AND  SLAVES. 

See  Servants.  Penalty  on  a  ser- 
vant for  resisting  his  overseer 
.038. 

OWNERS.— See  Virginian 

Owner-. 

PALISADES 

To  be  around  every  dwelling 
house  127. 

PAMPHLETS, 

Penalty  for  disposing  of  or  pub- 
lishing those  containing  the  ten- 
ets ot  the  quakers  533. 
PARDON 

Granted  for  homicide,  per  mis- 
adventure 406 

PARENTS' 

Consent  to  marriage,  when  ne- 
cessary 156, 181. 

PARISHES. 

Kiskiacke  established  228. — 
Lawne's  creek  229.  Bounda- 
ries altered  2;  7.  Wallingford 
249.  Boundaries  of,  altered 
278.  North'n.  county  divided 
into  249.  Lynhaven,  bounda- 
ries of  250.  Upper  Norfolk 
divided  into  250-1  Names  of 
certain  parishes  changed,  & 
new  ones  formed  251.  Chip- 
poaks  278.  Waters's  creek 
278.  Isle  of  Wight  county  di- 
vided into  ibid.  Harrop  317. 
Certain  inhabitants  of  James 
City  may  form  one  298.  South- 
wark,  established  347.  Oc- 
quhanocke,  established  374. — 
Westover,  enlarged  375.  Mars- 
ton  388.  Stratton  Major  101. 
All  counties  to  be   laid   out  in 

^  400,  478.  Parish  levy  for  buil- 


ding churches  &  purchasing 
glebes  ibid.  To  pay  the  ex- 
penses of  their  own  burgesses 
4  21.  Bristol,  may  hold  courts. 
with  allowance  of  appeal  to 
Charles Citty  ami  Henrico  42  1. 
Provision  for  uniting  Nutmeg 
Quarter  to  Denbigh  425.  May 
be  laid  off  by  county  courts  469. 
Middletown,  established  198-'J„ 
PARISH  REGISTER 
To  be  kept  by  minister  and 
church  wardens  155,  15  8,  180, 
182-3,  4.33.  When  and  how 
certified  241.  To  be  kept  in 
each  parish  of  marriages,  births 
and  burials,  by  an  officer  ap- 
pointed for  that  purpose,  who 
is  to  certify  annually  to  the 
clerk  of  the  county  court,  there 
to  be  recorded  542. 

PARLIAMENT, 

Surrender  of  the  colony  of  Vii- 
ginia  to  the  authority  of  367. 
472. 
PARLIAMEXARY  PRO- 
CEEDINGS, 

In  the   house  of  burgesses  dur- 
ing the  commonwealth  495,  497, 
505,  516. 
PAROCHIAL  BURGESSES. 

Their  wages  paid  by  the  parish 
421.  Vestry  may  order  pay- 
ment of  520.  Collectors  may 
distrain  for  521.  Sheriffs  can- 
not refuse  to  hold  elections  for 
545. 

PASS, 

How  obtained,  for  debtor  remov- 
ing 200,  243.  Penally  for  trans- 
porting a  person  without  436-7. 
Prc-rcquisites  of,  437. 
PASSENGERS, 

List  of,  to  be  delivered  to  com 
mander  at    Point  Comfort   or 


4B 


586 


P. 


INDEX. 


P. 


arrival  of  ship  166,  191,  247, 
392.  To  take  the  oaths  of  al- 
legiance and  supremacy  166, 
191,  214.  To  have  a  suffici- 
ency of  stores  from  England 
here  435. 

PATENTS, 
For  importation    rights    of  ser- 
vants, how  obtained  274,  444, 
Exception  as  to  Rappahannock 
274.       Form    of,     during    the 
commonwealth    472.     Owners 
of  elder,    compelled    to    shew 
their    bounds  to   those  wishing 
to  survey  adjoining  519.     How 
formerly  granted  under  the  Lon- 
don company  552. 
PAY 
Of  officers    and    men    at    Point 
Comfort  222. 

PETIT  TREASON, 
Judgment  for  146. 

PETITION 
To  the  Assembly  by  W.  Parry, 
for  relief,  rejected  512. 
PHYSICIANS  AND  SURGE- 
ONS 
Compellable  to  declare  on  oath 
the  valui  of  the  If  drugs  and  rr.e- 
dicines  316   450.     Courts  may 
allow  what  is   reasonable   ibid. 
Penalty    on,  and  on    surgeons 
for  neglecting  their  patients  or 
refusing    their   assistance  ibid. 
Jurisdiction    given    to    county 
courts  317.     Jurisdiction  to  all 
courts  450. 

PIPE-STAVES.— See  staple 

commodities. 

P  T  JH. — See  staple  commodi 

ties. 
PLANTATIONS.— See  Repre- 
sentation. 
PLANTERS, 
Privileges  of  old  124,  172,  197, 
263,  460. 


PLAT, 

Not  to  be  delivered  by  surveyoi 
till  six  months  after  it  is  drawn 
from  the  survey  518. 
PLEADINGS, 

Want  of  form  no  bar  in  486-7. 
PLEAS 

To  be  in  money,  and  not  tobac- 
co 216. 

POINT  COMFORT, 

Fort  to  be  built  at  150.  Regu- 
lations to  be  observed  by  ves- 
sels arriving  there  166.  Fort, 
when  finished  to  be  viewed  175. 
Guard  at  ibid.  Powder  and 
shot  payable  at  176,  218,  247. 
Waiters  to  be  put  on  board  ves- 
sels arriving  at  215.  Tax  on 
new-comers  for  222.  Pay  of 
officers  and  men  at  ibid.  New 
fort  to  be  built  at  226.  Duties 
payable  at,  in  match  and  paper 
royal  229,  247.  Also  in  pow- 
der and  shot  247.  Duties  of 
powder  and  shot  payable  at,  a- 
bolished,  and  additional  duties 
payable  to  the  government  301, 
312.  Salary  of  Captain  Mor- 
rison, commander  of  320. 
POLL-TAX.— See  Taxes. 

Abolished,  and  tax  on  property 
substituted    305-6.        Tax    on 
property  abolished,   and  poll- 
taxes  revived  356. 
POOR 

Exempted  from  public  charges, 
except  parish  duties  242.  Pro- 
vision for  educating  poor  chil- 
dren 336-7. 

POPERY, 

Statute  of  England  against,  en- 
forced 268-9.  Priests  to  be 
banished  269. 

POPISH  RECUSANTS, 

Statute  of  England  against,  en- 
forced 268-9. 


p. 


INDEX. 


P. 


587 


PORT-DUTIES, 

Payable  in  powder  and  shot  176, 
191,  218,  247.  Repealed,  and 
additional  paid  to  the  govern- 
ment 301,  312.  How  payable 
and  appropriated,  during  va- 
cancy of  a  governor  533-4. — 
Where  to  be  paid  534.  Col- 
lectors of,  to  be  appointed  534. 
Port-charges  payable  to  Sir  W. 
Berkeley  543.  Provision  as 
to  those  accruing  after  the  death 
of  Matthewes  ibid. 
PORTS. 

James  City  sole  port  of  entry 
126,  163,  191.  206,  214,  245-6. 
Ports  and  places  of  market  in 
each  county  established  412, 
414.  The  last  act  repealed 
397. 

POTASHES.— See  staple  com- 
modities. 

POTT. 

Doct'r.  John  Pott,  late  govern- 
or, found  guilty  of  stealing  cat- 
tle 145. 

POUNTIS, 

John,  sent  to  England  128. 
POWDER  &  SHOT 

To  be  provided  for  each  planta- 
tion 127.  Not  to  be  wasted 
ibid,  and  173,  198.  Duty  in 
powder  and  shot,  payabie  at 
Point  Comfort  176,  191,  218, 
247.  Repealed  312.  Not  to 
be  sold  to  Indians  219.  Or 
lent  to  Indians  255.  A  barrel 
of  powder  allotted  to  each  coun- 
ty 277.  To  be  purchased  297. 
Additional  duty  in  301.  Made 
perpetual  312.  Commission- 
ers to  render  an  account  to  as- 
sembly, for  the  levy  for  387. 
Proportion  of,  to  each  regi- 
ment 425.     Penalty  for  barter- 


ing or  selling  to  Indians  441. 
For  lending  ibid.  Free  trade 
allowed  with  Indians  for  525. 
Every  man  to  be  provided  with 
a  gun  and  a  certain  proportion 
of  525. 

POWER 

Of  government  assumed  by  the 
assembly,  there  being  no  abso- 
lute, general  confessed  power  in 
England  530,  531. 
PRAYERS, 

Minister   refusing  to   read,    not 
entitled  to  his  salary  341-2. 
PREACHING 

To  be  in  the  church  158,  183. 
In  the  forenoon  and  catechising 
in  the  afternoon  290.  Penalty 
on  masters  of  families  for  not 
sending  their  children  and  ser- 
vants 311. 

PREGNANCY 

Pleaded  209.  Oath  administer- 
ed by  a  midwife  to  a  pregnant 
woman  and  the  child  born  in 
marriage  adjudged  another 
man's  552. 

PREMIUMS 

For  making  wheat,  silk,  flax, 
hops,  wine  and  other  staple 
commodities,  except  tobacco 
469,  470.  For  silk  increased 
487,  521. 

PRESENTMENTS.— See 

Church-Wardens,    Grand  Jury. 

What  presentments  to  be  made 
by  church-wardens  240.  Mi- 
nisters, how  presented  and  in- 
ducted 241-2. 

PRESS. — See  Impressment. 
PRIESTS. 
Popish   Priests,  to  be  banished 
within    five  davs  after  their  ar- 
rival 269. 


588 


P. 


INDEX. 


P. 


PRISON   BOUNDS, 

How  assigned  341.  Prisoner 
breaking  them  to  be  kept  in 
close  custody  341. 

PRISON   BREAKING, 

Felony,  and  county  and  sheriffs 
exonerated  340-1. 

PRISONERS, 

How  kept  for  trial  264-5.  Charges 
of,  how  paid  265,  2S5,  310, 
449.  460.  Poor,  how  relieved 
294,  346,  452.  Not  to  be  tri- 
ed in  county,  but  before  quarter 
court  or  assembly  only  307-8. 
How  kept  398,  444.  If  con- 
victed, his  estate  to  remain  with 
his  wife  and  children,  till  fur- 
ther order  398. 

PRISONS, 

Sufficient,  to  be  built  265,  444. 
What  deemed  sufficient  340, 
452.  County  courts  liable  for 
neglect  265,  460.  Persons 
breaking,  deemed  felons,  and 
county  courts,  and  sheriffs  ex- 
onerated 340-1. 

PROCESS 

Against  debtors  lately  arrived 
from  England,  suspended  256. 
exception  257.  From  quarter 
courts  by  whom  signed  272. 
How  to  issue  during  the  com- 
monwealth 434,  530. 

PROCLAMATIONS, 

At  one  period,  supplied  the  place 
of  legislative  acts  120.  Against 
swearing  and  drunkenness  con- 
firmed 126.  Proclamation  to 
be  read  on  board  each  ship,  on 
their  arrival,  restricting  them 
to  the  port  of  James  City  ibid. 
Concerning  rates  of  commodi- 
ties ib.  Effect  of  129.  Form  of 
to  be  affixed  at  main-mast  of 
each  ship  166,   191,  214,  215. 


Not   to  contravene  a  law  264, 
447.  Prohibiting  migration  321. 
PROTECTION, 

Writ  of,  granted  to  the  king  of 
Weanoak,  from  arrests  for  debt 
547. 

PROTECTOR, 

Oliver  Cromwell  declared  358, 
note.  Succession  of  Richard 
509,511.  Measures  contemp- 
lated by  Oliver  Cromwell  for 
settling  the  government  of  Vir- 
ginia, frustrated  by  his  death 
509,  527,  note.  The  influence 
of  the  protectorship  never  felt 
in  Virginia  527. 
PROVISIONAL  GOVERN- 
MENT 

Adopted  in  Virginia,  on  the  sur- 
render of  the  colony  to  the  par- 
liament of  England  37 1 .  Rich- 
ard Bennett,  elected  governor 
ibid.  Secretary  of  state  elect- 
ed ibid.  Members  of  the  coun- 
cil 371-2.  Powers  of  govern- 
or and  council  372.  Commis- 
sioners of  counties,  how  ap- 
pointed ibid.  All  other  offi- 
cers ibid.  Governor  and  coun- 
cil to  be  members  of  assembly 
373.  Provisional  government 
recited  and  recognized  428, 
431.  Government,  after  the 
death  of  Oliver  Cromwell  511, 
5 1 4,  526,  529.  Supreme  pow- 
er declared  to  be  in  the  assem- 
bly, till  a  commission  shall 
come  out  of  England  530.  All 
laws  contravening,  repealed 
531.  Penalty  for  speaking  in 
derogation  of  ibid, 

PUBLIC  CREDITORS, 

How  paid  143. 

PUBLIC  GRANARY, 

Established  in  each  parish  125. 


H 


INDEX. 


R. 


58!4 


PUBLIC    LETTERS, 

How  conveyed  436. 

QUAKERS, 

Penalty  on  masters  of  vessels  for 
bringing  them  in  532-3.  All 
Quakers  to  be  apprehended  & 
committed  to  prison,  till  they 
give  security  to  leave  the  colo- 
ny 533.  Penalty  lor  returning, 
ibid.  Fur  returning  a  third  time 
to  be  proceeded  against  as  fe- 
lons ibid.  Penalty  f<>r  enter- 
taining or  permitting  assem- 
blies of  Quakers,  ibid.  All  of- 
ficers bound  to  enforce  this  act, 
ibid.  Penalty  fur  disposing  of, 
or  publishing  books  or  pam- 
phlets containing  their  tenets, 
ibid. 

QUARTER  COURTS, 

How  constituted  145,  note. — 
Terms  of  174,  187,  270,  401. 
Where  held  174,  187,  401.— 
Fees  of  clerk  of  200.  Rules  of 
proceeding  in  270-1,  401.  Ju- 
risdiction of  345-0,  477.  Com- 
pensation fur  the  use  of  a  house 
in  which  the  quarter  courts  held 
425.  June  term  abolished  524. 
Terms  of  March,  September  and 
November  altered  524. 
QUEEN'S  CREEK, 

Encouragement  for  settling  be- 
tween Archer's  Hope  &  Q'ns. 
Creek  199. 

QUIETUS, 

How  obtained  by  administrators 
303.      When  401. 

QUIT  RENTS, 

When  and  what  payable  228. — 
When  to  commence  280.  How 
appropriated  300-7.  Kates  of 
tobacco,  received  for  310.  May 
be  distrained  for,  and  replevied 
361. 


RAPPAHANNOCK. 

Excepted  as  to  importation  rights 
of  servants  274.  Settlement 
postponed,  ibid.  Count}- form- 
ed from  upper  part  of  Lancas- 
ter, 427. 

RATES. 

See  Corn,  Ordinaries,  Tobacco. 

Of    commodities,    proclamation 
for  120.  Of  tavern  keepers  221* 
2S7,  300.  440.  522. 
RECEIPTS, 

To  be  given  by  clerks  for  all  pa- 
pers received  by  them  408. 
RECORDS, 

Ancient,    relating    to     Virginia, 
some  account  of  70.  To  be  kept 
by  clerks  of  county  courts  303-4 . 
RECUSANTS. 

See  Popish  Recusants. 
REGISTER. 

See  Parish  Register. 
REGISTERING  OF  DEEDS. 

Deeds  and  mortgages  to  be  re- 
gistered   in   court,    or   deemed 
fraudulent  227,  248-9.    Exccp 
tion  249.    Extended  to  convex 
ances  of  goods  &c  chattels  418. 
REMONSTRANCE. 

Of  the  grand  assembly  236,  238. 
REMOVAL. 

No  person    to  remove  to  IVcw 
England,  or  elsewhere  without 
a  pass  from  the  governor  200 
437,  4G5. 

REPRESENTATION. 

First  by  boroughs  121,  note:  .Se- 
cond/*/ by  plantations  or  settle 
ments  138,  147,  153,  17S,  30 
Thirdly  by  counties  224,  339 
282.  288,  298,322,339,  and  all 
subsequent  sessions.     Election 
of   burgesses,  how  to  be  411. 
412,  475.  Right  of  suffragt 
bridged  412.     Again  extent 
to  all  free  men  403.  475. 


590 


R. 


INDEX. 


S. 


REPRESENTATIVES. 
See  Burgesses. 

RESTORATION, 
Of  Charles  II.  when  528-9,  note. 

REVENUE. 
See  appropriation.    Taxes. 
REVISAL, 

First  Revisal  of  the  laws  178, 
202.  Second  Revisal  238,  282. 
Third  Revisal  429,  494.  Com- 
mittee appointed  for  421.  Cotia- 
pesation  to  clerk  of  revisors  425. 
Revised  laws  to  be  digested  into 
one  volume  427.  Committee  to 
compare  them,  ibid.  How,  and 
by  whom  copied  from  the  origi- 
nals, ibid.  Motives  for  revisal 
of  1657-8,  p.  432.  Of  March 
1657-8,  how  adopted  495. 
ROADS, 

How  laid  out  199,436. 
ROANOAKE, 

Or  Moratuck,  settled  380-1.     A 
species  of  coin  397. 
ROBERTSON, 

His  misrepresentations,  as  to  the 
election  of  Sir  Wm.  Berkeley, 
governor,  and  the  other  public 
transactions  in  Virginia,  during 
the  commonwealth  of  England 
513,  note.  526-7,  &tc.  note. — 
Quotation  from  replete  with  er- 
ror 526-7,  note. 

RULES, 

Of  proceeding,  in  the  house  of 
burgesses  507-8. 

RUNAWAYS, 

Penalty  for  hiring  runaway  ser- 
vants 253,  440.  How  punished 
254-5,  440.  To  be  branded  on 
the  cheek  with  the  letter  R, 
254-5.  On  the  shoulder  440. 
For  ill  usage,  how  redressed 
255,440.  Felony  to  carry  arms 
or  ammunition  to  the  Indians 


255.  Penalty  for  second  oflence 
401.  For  harboring  401,  440. 
Hue  and  cry  against  4S3.  The 
hair  of  runaway  servants  to  be 
cut  close  above  the  ears  517-8. 
How  the  Dutch  paid  for  appre- 
hending &  bringing  in  runaway 
servants  539. 

SABBATH, 

Not  to  be  profaned  144,  434. — 

Profanation  of,   how  presented 

240,  434.    How  kept  261,  434. 

No  arrest  on  457. 

SACRAMENT, 
To  be  administered  three  times 
a  year  158,  183    In  the  church 
ibid.    According  to  the  book  of 
common  prayer  241. 
SALARIES. 
(See  the  respective  officers.) 
Of  the  governor  &t  council,  while 
attending  quarter  courts  Sz,  as- 
semblies 423.    Of  the  governor 
ibid.    His  perquisites,  ibid.    Of 
the  speaker  of  the  house  of  bur- 
gesses 424.    Of  the  clerk,  ibid. 
Of  the  members  of  council,  to 
be  paid   for  actual  attendance 
only  523. 

SALTPETRE, 
Experiments  in  151. 

SAVAGES. 
See  Indians. 

SCIRE  FACIAS, 
Must  be  sued  out  after  a  judg- 
ment has  been  a  year  and  a  day 
without  execution  484. 
SEARCHERS, 
Of  vessels,  appointed  207. 

SEA  STORES, 
Sufficient,  from  England  here,  to 
be  provided  by  masters  of  ves- 
sels 435. 

SECONDS, 
Of  tobacco,  not  to  be  tended,  an- 


INDEX. 


591 


der  a  penalty  399,  478.  Penal- 
ty 478. 

SECRETARY, 

His  fees  176,  201,  220,  265,  463. 
His  office- hours  223.  His  du- 
ties daring' vacancy  of  governor 
223.  Fees  of  his  clerk  of  quar- 
ter court  266.  Fir?t  secretary 
of  state,  under  provisional  go- 
vernment 371.  To  issue  sum- 
monses for  assemblies  ex  officio 
551- 
SECRETARY  OF  STATE, 

Directed  to  deliver  the  public  re- 
cords to  the  speaker  of  the  house 
of  burgesses,  during  a  contest 
between  the  governor  &i  coun- 
cil, and  house  of  burgesses,  as 
to  the  constitutional  power  of 
dissolving  the  assembly  503. — 
Wm.  Claiborne  appointed  523, 
547.  How  appointed  on  the 
election  of  Sir  Win.  Berkeley 
as  governor  531. 
SECURITY  FOR  COSTS, 

To  be  given  by  non-resid't  plain- 
tiffs 522. 

SEDITION, 

in  Northampton  and  Accomack 
380.  Certain  commissioners  to 
attend  governor  and  council,  to 
quiet  disturbances  of  the  people 
384. 

SERJEANTS, 

When  appointed  224. 
SERMON, 

Minister  to  preach  one,  every 
Sunday  157. 

SERVANTS, 

Penalty  on,  for  secret  marriages 
252-3,  438.  For  hiring  run- 
aways 253-4, 439.  Punishment 
of  runaways  253-4,  401,  440. 
Redress,  for  ill  usage  255,  440. 


Felony  for  runaway  servants  to 
carry  arms  or  ammunition  to 
the  Indians  255.  Brought  in 
without  indentures,  how  long  to 
serve  257,  441.  How  patents, 
for  importation  rights  of,  to  is- 
sue 274,  444.  Penalty  for  deal- 
ing with  other  men's  274-5,445. 
Indian  children,  upon  what  con- 
ditions taken  410.  Irish  serv- 
ants, how  long  to  serve  411. — 
Repealed  53S.  For  harbouring 
runaway 401.  Tohavesufficient 
accommodations  from  England 
here  435.  Fornication  by  ser- 
vants 438.  Having  bastards, 
how  punishable  438-9.  Hue  So 
cry  against  runaway  483  Run- 
aways, to  have  their  hair  cut 
close  above  the  ears  517-8.  Pe- 
nalty for  resisting  their  master, 
mistress  or  overseer  538.  How 
Dutch  paid,  for  apprehending 
and  bringing  in  runaway  539. 
SERVITUDE, 

For  offences,  abolished  259, 459. 
SETTLEMENTS, 

On  others'  lands,  how  compen- 
sation to  be  made  for  improve- 
ments 260, 443.  Exception  349, 
444.  Inhabitants  permitted  to 
disperse  &.  form  distinct  285-6. 
On  the  north  side  of  York  river, 
when  allowed  328-9.  Further 
time  allowed  for  349.  On  the 
north  side  of  Charles  and  Rap- 
pahannock rivers,  authorised 
353.  On  Moratuck  or  Roan- 
oake,  h  Choan  rivers  380. 
SETT- OFF, 

How  allowed  in  court  296,  449. 
Act  for,  made  perpetual  314. 
Debts  sett-off  must  be  of  like 
nature  and  value  449 


i92 


S. 


INDEX. 


S. 


SEXTON, 
How  paid  226.    Hon-  appointed 

241. 

SHEEP, 

Exportatiorrof,    prohibited  463. 
SHERIFFS, 

When  first  appointed  223.  Their 
power,  the  same  as  in  En- 
gland 224.  No  writ  to  be  di- 
rected  to  more  than  one  she- 
riff 257-8.  To  continue  in  of- 
fice, one  year,  only  259,  442. 
When  to  settle  their  accounts 
with  the  public  259,  442.  To 
give  good  security  259,  284, 
442,  445.  How  to  keep  prison- 
ers for  trial  264-5.  Their  fees 
266,465.  Fined  for  non-appear- 
ance of  defendant  27].  That 
act  repealed  272.  Certain  she- 
riffs fined  for  not  producing  their 
accounts  to  the  assembly  2S4. 
Their  fees  regulated  295.  Sum- 
mary redress  against,  for  cer- 
tain taxes 297.  Whatfeesbound 
to  collect  302,  313.  Sheriff  to 
take  bail,  on  arrests,  or  be  liable 
to  the  judgment  of  the  court 
305,  443.  How  he  may  dis- 
charge himself,  if  defend't  fails 
to  appear448.  May  have  an  at- 
tachment448.  When  to  distrain 
for  taxes  320.  To  give  a  prefer- 
ence to  public  &;  couniy  levies, 
in  their  collections  330,  450. — 
Not  to  plead  as  attorney  in  the 
court  to  which  he  belongs  330, 
523.  Penalty  for  disobeying 
any  command  of  the  general 
assembly  333,  452.  Or  not 
making  return  of  any  warrant 
or  precept  452.  When  to  re- 
turn lists  of  taxable  property 
1 ! .    Collectors  to  receive  pub- 


lic levies,  instead  of  342-3. — 
To  be  recommended  by  county 
courts,  and  approved  by  the  go- 
vernor &  council  392, 471.  To 
collect  and  distrain  for  clerks' 
fees  465.  Their  commission  for 
collecting,  ibid.  Form  of  their 
oath,  during  the  commonwealth 
467.  Limitation  in  recovery  of 
their  fees.  484.  To  take  lists  of 
tithables  as  formerly  521.  Ad- 
ditional penalty  on,  for  not  mak- 
ing due  return  of  burgesses  532. 
Cannot  refuse  to  hold  elections 
for  parochial  burgesses,  on  the 
request  of  the  vestry  545.  To 
summon  persons  to  render  ac- 
counts of  orphans'  estates,  ex 
officio  550.  When  to  return 
lists  of  tithables  551. 
SHIPS, 
Not  to  break  bulk  or  make  sales 
till  thev  arrive  at  James  City 
126,  163, 191,  214,245-6.  Ex- 
ception 246.  Duty  of  captain 
of,  on  arrival  at  Point  Comfort 
166,  141,  392.  Proclamation 
to  be  fixed  at  the  main  mast  of 
166,  191,  214.  Copy  of  act  to 
be  fixed  to  245-6.  If  arrive 
empty,  limited  in  their  freight 
back  216-7.  Leopaldus,  for- 
feited 382-3.  Proceeds  of  sale 
of,  appropriated  385.  Bill  of 
sale  of  362,  note.  To  report  to 
governor,  on  their  arrival  392, 
470.  To  douse  sail  on  passing 
the  fort  392,  470.  Masters  of, 
to  provide  sufticient  stores  for 
passengers,  from  England  here 
435.  Certain  captains  of,  refus- 
ing to  pay  the  duty  of  two  shil- 
lings a  hogshead,  on  tobacco, 
ordered  to  be  taken  into  custo- 


s. 


INDEX. 


S. 


593 


dy  512-3.  Masters  of,  to  give 
bond  and  security  not  to  molest 
any  person  trading  under  the 
protection  of  the  laws  of  Virgi- 
nia 535.  Form  of  the  bond  537. 
SHIRES, 
Names  and  number  of  shires  ©r 
counties  first  established  in 
Virerinia  224. 

SHOOTING, 
On  other  men's  land,  seated  and 
bounded,  prohibited  228.  Pe- 
nalty for  294,  437.  But  deer 
or  game  shot  off  another's  land 
may  be  pursued  on  it  248,  437. 
Not  to  be  on  the  Sabbath  261. 
Nor  at  entertainments  401,  480. 
Exception,  ibid. 

SICK, 
To  be  visited  by  the  ministers 
157-8,  182. 

SILK. 
Donation  to  George,  the  Arme- 
nian, for  encouragement  to  slay 
in  the  country  and  make  silk 
425.  Premium  for  making  470, 
487,521. 

SILVER, 
See  Staple  commodities. 

SKINS. 
No  skins  or  hides  to  be  exported 
174,  199.     Furs  excepted  lb9. 
Act  prohibiting  exportation  of 
hides  repealed  314. 

SLAVES.— See  Negroes*. 
Indian  children  not  to  be  treated 
as  396. 

SOUTH  PARISH, 
Formed  in  Upper  Norfolk  coun- 
ty 251. 

SOUTHWARK, 

Parish,  established  347. 

SPEAKER, 
Communication    from   governor 


Bennett,  on  the  choice  of  377. 
Message  from  the  house  of  Bur- 
posses  on  the  same  subject  378. 
The  house  permit  their  speaker 
to  resign,  ibid.  Punishment  of 
Wm.  Hatcher  for  slandering 
col.  Edw.  Hill,  speaker,  ibid. 
Salary  of  424.  Power  and  duty 
of,  during  contest  between  the 
governor  &  council,  and  house 
of  burgesses,  as  to  the  constitu- 
tional  power  of  the  former  to 
dissolve  the  assembly  503-4. 
SPECIFIC  PERFORM- 
ANCE 

Decreed  405. 

SPIRITUOUS  LIQUORS, 

Act  against  buying  repealed  226. 
Debts  for,  not  recoverable  287. 
The  last  act  repealed  295.  Re- 
vived 350.  Prices  of,  in  taverns 
300,  446.  Not  to  be  retailed  by 
merchants  within  James  City 
31 9. 
STAPLE  COMMODITIES, 

Answer  to  the  king's  letter  con- 
cerning, viz.  Tobacco,  pitch, 
tar,  pot-ashes,  pipe-staves,  bar- 
rel-boards, clap-boards,  gold, 
silver,  copper,  fish,  134.  En- 
couragement of  151.  Prouii- 
ums  for,  except  tobacco  469. 
STATE  HOUSE, 

Provision  for  226. 

STEALING, 
See  Cattle — Hog  Stealing. 

STEELYARDS, 
To  be  provided  for  the  ware- 
houses 221.  Penalty  for  using 
false  39 1 ,  470.  To  be  tried  by 
standard  weights  kept  at  the 
courthouses  391.  470. 

STINT. 
See  Tobacco. 


4C 


594 


S. 


INDEX. 


S. 


Price  of  corn  not  to  be  stinted 
125    173. 

'  STORE-KEEPERS, 
See  Tobacco. 

To  be  appointed  at  warehouses 
204.  Their  commission,  and 
how  paid  22  i. 

STRATTON  MAJOR, 
Parish  404. 

STRAYS.— See  Estrays. 
STRONG  WATERS. 
See  Spirituous  Liquors. 

STYLE, 
Old  and  new  393,  note.  When 
the  new  style,  adopted  in  En- 
gland, &  the  colonies  393,  note. 
Variable  and  irregular  man- 
ner of  writing  ihe  date  before 
494. 

SUBPOENA, 
May  be  served  by  the  parties,  or 
any  private  person  295. 
SUFFRAGE, 
Right   of,    by    whom    exercised 
412.     Enlarged  403,  475. 
SUMMARY  PROCEED- 
INGS, 
Against  sheriffs  &  commission- 
ers for  converting  certain  taxes 
to  their  own  use  297. 
SUNDAY.— See  Sabbath. 
SUPERSEDEAS, 
Damages,  on  affirmance  of  judg- 
ment, after  487.      Not  to    be 
granted  except  where  an  appeal 
will  lie  522.  One  awarded  549. 
SUPREMACY. — See    Oaths. 
Oath  of,  to  be   administered  to 
each  passenger,  on   his  arrival 
at  Point  Comfort  166,  191.  Pu- 
nishment for  refusing  to  take  it 
166,  191,  214. 

SURGEONS. 
See  Physicians  and  Surgeons. 


SURPLUS, 

Of  decedent's  estate,    where   no 
kin,  how  disposed  of  401,  447. 
SURRENDER. 

Articles  at  the  surrender  of  the 
country  to  the  parliament  of 
England  363,  367.  Act  of  in- 
demnity at  367,  472.  Right  to 
free  trade  under  articles  of,  as- 
serted by  the  assembly  of  Vir- 
ginia 535. 

SURRY 

County  373. 

SURVEYORS, 

Their  fees  125,  335,  452.  Their 
duties  335,  452.  Penalty  for 
refusing  to  survey,  ibid.  How 
appointed  404.  Incompetent, 
to  be  removed,  ibid.  Of  high- 
ways, to  be  annually  appointed 
436.  Not  to  deliver  a  plat,  till 
six  months  after  it  is  drawn  ac- 
cording to  the  survey  519.  To 
mark  the  lands  plainly  518-9. 
SURVEYS, 

To  be  made  of  each  planter's 
land  125,  173,  197.  How  dis- 
putes about  boundaries  decided 
ibid.  All  former  confirmed  262, 
459.  No  plat  to  be  delivered  till 
six  months  after  taken  from  the 
survey  518-9.  Owners  of  elder 
patents  compelled  to  shew  their 
bounds  to  those  wishing  to  sur- 
vey .adjoining  519. 

SWEARING, 

Punishment  for  126,  1G7,  194, 
433.  How  presented  126,  240, 
Forfeitures  for,  how  collected 
126,194. 

SYMMS,  BENJAMIN, 

His  will  giving  lands  for  a  free- 
school,  in  Elizabeth  City,  con- 
firmed 252. 


I. 


INDEX. 


T. 


595 


TAR. — See  staple  commodities. 

TAVERNS.— See  Ordinaries. 
TAXABLE  PROPERTY, 

Lists  of,  how  taken  306.  New 
comissioners  appointed  to  take 
lists  of  309.  Penalty  for  con- 
cealing 329.  For  giving  fal  e 
lists  ibid.  When  lists  of  return- 
able 341.  Taxes  on  property 
abolished  and  poll-taxes  reviv- 
ed 353.  Who  to  be  listed  as 
tithables  361.  Lists  of  titha- 
bles,  when  to  be  taken  361. — 
Penalty  for  concealing  361. 
TAXES, 

Limitation  of  governor's  power 
as  to  124,  171,  196,244.  Im- 
position of  128.  Poll  tax  143. 
To  be  collected  by  the  barges- 
ses  143.  How  paid  ibid.  Tax- 
es for  1632,  pa.  196.  On  new- 
comers, poyable  for  the  fort  222. 
Taxes  for  1639,  pa.  229.  For 
1642-3,  pa.  279.  Councillors 
exempted  from  279.  Laid  for 
the  governor's  accommodation, 
in  consequence  of  the  civil  war 
in  England  380-1-2.  Expenses 
of  transporting,  how  paid  284. 
Heads  of  families  liable  for 
taxes  of  its  members  286.  Ad- 
ditional levy  for  defraying  ex- 
penses of  Sir  Wm.  Berkeley's 
voyage,  and  for  purchase  of 
powder  286.  To  defray  ex- 
penses of  the  war  against  Pa- 
munkey  and  Cbiekahominy  In- 
dians 287.  Poll-tax  abolished 
and  tax  on  properly  substitut- 
ed 305.  List  of,  how  taken 
306.  When  payable  319,  334. 
Sheriffs  may  distrain  for  320. 
None  to  be  raised  hut  by  a 
grand    assembly    320.      New 


commissioners  appointed  to  take 
lists  of  taxable  property  329. 
Penalty  for  concealing  ibid. — 
For  false  lists  ibid.  To  have 
a  preference  over  all  other  debts 
330,  450.  Extraordinary  tax 
to  defray  the  expense  of  an  In- 
dian war  337.  Inhabitants  of 
Chicawane  or  Northumberland 
to  contribute  337.  To  be  re- 
ceived by  collectors  instead  of 
sheriffs  342-3.  Counties  liable 
for,  in  default  of  sheriffs  354. 
On  property,  abolished,  and 
poll-taxes  revived  356.  Who 
to  be  listed  as  tithables  361. 
When  lists  to  be  taken  ibid. 
Penalty  for  concealing  361-2. 
Taxes  "for  1655,  pa.  403. 
TENDER, 

If  made  before  suit  brought, 
pltf.  to  pay  costs  264.  Credi- 
tor must  demand  before  suit 
254.  Oath  of  demand  suffici- 
ent 317. 

TITHABLES.— See     Taxable 
Property,  Taxes. 

List  of,  to  be  returned  by  the 
burgesses  143.  New  mode  of 
taking  lists  of  306,  329.  Tax 
on  revived,  and  tax  on  proper- 
ty abolished  356.  Who  to  be 
listed  as  361.  When  to  be  ta- 
ken ibid.  Penalty  for  conceal- 
ing 361-2.  Commissioners  to 
examine  lists  of,  and  fine  she- 
riffs for  neglect  therein  376. 
Lists  of,  how  corrected,  and 
taken  388.  What  persons  are 
ttthable  454.  When  lists  to  be 
taken  ibid.  How  given  in  ibid. 
Penalty  for  concealing  or  ren 
dering  a  false  list  455.  Act  for 
returning,  by  heads  of  familic 


596 


T. 


INDEX. 


T. 


repealed,    and   sheriffs  to  take 
lists  of,  as  formerly  521.  When 
sheriffs  to  return  lists  of  551. 
TITHES, 

By  whom  payable  to  the  minis- 
ters 144,  241,  361-2.  Of  calves, 
kids  and  pigs  159,  184.  How 
collected  ibid.  Further  conti- 
nued 207.  Act  allowing,  re- 
pealed 220. 

TOBACCO, 

Act    concerning    126.      Answer 
to  king's  letter  concerning  134. 
Newcomers  notrestrained  from 
making  141.     Limitation  as  to 
planting  141-2,  152,  164,  189. 
Bad  tobacco    tendered   in  pay- 
ment to  be  viewed  by  comman- 
der  of  plantation,  with  two  or 
three     discreet   men,   &2    burnt 
152.     Party  delinquent  not  to 
plant   any  more  till  authorised 
by    the  general    assembly  ibid. 
3N(it  to  be   planted   by  French- 
men, who    failed    in   culture  of 
vines  161.     Price    limited  162, 
183.  Penalty  for  violation  ibid. 
Limitation  of  prosecution  163, 
188.     Proceedings  ibid.     How 
many  leaves  to  a  plant  164,  189, 
No    seconds   to  be  tended  ibid. 
When    to   be  taken  down  165. 
Assembly  to  be  called  concern- 
ing ibid*.     How  inspected,  when 
bad  tendered    in  payment  165, 
190.     Bad  tobacco  to  be  burnt 
ibid.     Viewers,    how    appoint- 
ed ibid.    Penalty    for    refusing 
to  act  ibid.     Former  acts  con- 
cerning,   repealed  204,  210. — 
Warehouses     established    204, 
211.        Inspectors,     who     ibid. 
When  to  attend,  ib.     To  burn 
bad  tobacco  ib.     Good  tobacco 


to  be  received  and  entered  204. 
212.     No   tobacco   to    be  paid 
away  till  inspected  and  entered 
ib.     x\ll  payments  to  be  made 
at  the   warehouses  204.     How 
warehouses     built    and    store- 
keepers   appointed   204,    211. 
All  tobacco    to   be  brought  to 
warehouses,     on    oath,    before 
last  day    of  December  204-5, 
211.     Except  what  is  reserved 
for   family   use  205,  212.     At 
what   places  warehouses  estab- 
lished   205,   211.     When,  and 
what  tobacco  may  be  made  up 
in  rolls  205,  212.     Limitation 
as   to   planting  ib.     What  sort 
to  plant  ib.     Craps  to  be  view- 
ed and  counted  206,  212.     For 
excess,  whole   crop    to   be   cut 
downe  206.     Further  penalties 
206,  213.     Goods  to  be  landed 
and  contracts  for  tobacco  made 
at   James   City   206,  213,  214. 
Price  of  tobacco   limited    206. 
210.     Invoices  of  goods   to  be 
delivered  206,  213.     Searchers 
appointed  207,  213.    Contracts 
and    pleadings    to  be  no  longer 
in  tobacco,  but  in  money   only 
216.        Commission      allowed 
store-keepers    at    James     City 
221.      How    paid   ib.      Sealed 
weights    and     measures    to    be 
provided    for  ib.     Plan  for  im- 
proving the    value   of;  half  the 
good  and  all  the  bad  to  be  de- 
stroyed 225.     Creditors  to  re- 
ceive   a   certain    portion  of  ib. 
Contracts    for    freight    of,    re- 
duced   ib.      Relief  of  debtors 
for   ib.     Price   of    tobacco    in 
1639  limited   ib.     Contents    of 
a  ton  of  tobacco  ib.     Freight 


T. 


INDEX. 


T. 


597 


per   tun     limited  ib.     How  to- 
bacco to  be  tendered  ib.    Pria 
of  crop   of  1640    limited   226 
Who    permitted   to   cultivate  it 
228.    No  tobacco  brought  from 
Maryland  and   sold  in  Virginia 
276.  Casks  for,  to  be  purchased 
of  coopers  only  330.     That  act 
repealed,  and  merchant  to  allow 
for   cask   351-2.       Inhabitants 
not   liable   to  export  duties  on 
410.     No  seconds  to  be  tended 
399,  478.     Penalty,  and   how 
appropriated    399.      Size   of  a 
hogshead  of  435,  456.     Penal- 
ty   for  exceeding  the  legal  size 
456.    For  making  casks  of  tim- 
ber  not   seasoned  456.     Duty 
of  ten  shillings  a  hogshead  im- 
posed on  all  foreigners  export- 
ing   tobacco   dining   common- 
wealth   469.     Extended   to   ali 
persons  not  bound  to  an  Eng- 
lish port,  except  Virginian  own- 
ers 536-7.     .Mixed  with  ground 
leaves  no  longer  merchantable 
487.      Ground  leaves  not  to  be 
disposed  of  524.      How  former 
tobacco  debts  to  be  paid  488, 
524.       Proceedings    when    the 
creditor  will  not  accept  488. — 
Public  levies,  clerks'  fees,  &tc. 
to  be  paid  in  good  tobacco  4S8. 
Penalty    for    packing    ground 
leaves  with  good   tobacco  488. 
Such  tobacco  to  be  burnt  488. 
No  tobacco  to  be  planted  after 
the  10th  of  July  488.     Penalty 
ib.  Tobacco  debts  not  demand- 
ed between    10th  of  October  &. 
last  of  January  not  recoverable 
till   next    crop  ;    but    suit    may 
be     brought    for    securing    the 
debt  489.     Duty   of  two  shil- 


lings a  hogshead  on  all  tobacco 
exported  492-3.  That  act  re- 
pealed 523.  Proceedings  in  the 
house  of  burgesses  as  to  the 
time  of  planting  496.  Reasons 
for  laying  a  duty  on  exporta- 
tion of  498.  Certain  captains 
of  vessels,  refusing  to  pay  the 
duty  of  two  shillings  a  hogshead 
on,  ordered  to  be  taken  into 
custody  512,  SI 3. 
TOLL. 

What  toll  millers  may  take  301. 
Penalty    for     exceeding    348, 
485. 
TRADE.— See  Free  Trade. 

Act  for  regulating  trade  &  es- 
tablishing  ports  and  markets  in 
each  county  412,  414.  Repeal- 
ed 397. 

TRADESMEN 

To  follow  their  trades  and  not  to 
plant  tobacco  or  corn  208. 
TRANSPORTATION 

Of  debtors  without  notice,  liable 
for  their  debts  200,  243.  So 
without  a  pass  437.  Penalty 
for  transporting  persons  to  the 
bay  or  elsewhere,  without  no- 
tice 466.  How  cattle  to  be 
transported  466. 

TREASON 

To  doubt  the  right  of  succession 
of  Charles  II,  pa.  360.  To 
propose  a  change  of  govern- 
ment, in  Virginia,  or  to  doubt 
the  power  of  the  existing  go- 
vernment 361. 

TREASURER, 

His  salary  307. 

TREATIES. 

Treaty  with  Necotowance,  king 
of  the  Indians  323,  326,  453. 
Between  the  commissioners  of 
the  parliament  of  England,  and 


598 


V. 


INDEX. 


the    colony    of    Virginia    363, 
367.     Act  of  indemnity  367. 
TRESPASSES.— See  Fences. 
By  cattle,  Sic.  over  fences  244-5, 
332,  458. 

TONNAGE 
Duty,    payable    in    powder  and 
shot  301. 

TREATY 
Between  the   commonwealth    of 
England,    and    th'-    colon v   of 
'  Virginia,  363.  Additional  trea- 
ty 365.     Act  of  indemnity,  in- 
cluding the  treatv  367. 
UNDER  SHERIFF.— See 
Sheriff. 
Not  to  plead  as  attorney  in  the 
court  to  which  he  belongs  523. 
UNIFORMITY— See  Chun  h. 
To  church  of  England  enjoined 
i  123,  155,  180. 

UPPER  NORFOLK. 
Boundaries  of  223.     Finally  de- 
termined   247.       Divided    into 
three     parishes    250-1.      May 
elect  buruesses  in  each  parish 
277.      Name    of.    changed    to 
Nansinittm  321.     Part  of,  add- 
ed to  Isle  of  Wight  423. 
URINE, 
To  be  saved,  in  each  family  for 
experiments  in  saltpetre  151. 
VESSELS.— See  Ships. 
VESTRY, 
How  appointed  240.     By  a  ma- 
jority   of    parishioners  290. — 
May  order  payment  of  wages, 
by  the  parish,  of  parochial  bur- 
gesses 520. 
VIEVVERS.-See  Inspection, 

Tobacco. 
VINES. — See  staple  commodi- 
ties. 
To  be  planted  126.    Frenchmen 
in    culture  of,    not  to 


tailing 


plant  tobacco  161.  Proportion 
ot  to  be  planted  bv  inhabitants 
161,  192.  Act  for  planting, 
repealed  218. 

VIRGINIANS, 
Old    their   privileges  124,    172, 
107.  26:^.  460 

VI  [GINIAN  OWNERS 
Exempted     from    castle    duties 
402,  480      From  export  duty 
on  tob-  31. 

I  ATTON 
Of   minis  and    church-war- 

dens, yearlv  240,  241. 
VOYAGE 
Not  to  be  taken  on  the  Sabbath 
261.     Of  discovery  of  naviga- 
ble  rivers  between  Cape  Hat- 
teras  and  Cape  Fear  422. 
WAGES, 
Of  burgesses,  paid  by  the  coun- 
ties 267, 421 .  Ofparochial  bur- 
gesses by  the  parish  421.    How 
collected  520  1.      Of  members 
of  the  council,  for  actual  atten- 
dance only  523.   Of  chaplain  to 
the  assembly  549. 

WAITERS, 
To  be  put  on   board  all  vessels, 
on  their  arrival  at  Point  Com- 
fort 215.     Their  duty  215-6. 
WALLINGFORD. 
Boundaries  of  Wallingford   pa- 
rish 249.     Altered  278. 
WARDS. 
See  Orphans. 

WAREHOUSES. 
See  tobacco. 

When  &  where  established  204, 
205,  211.  Store-keepers  ap- 
pointed at  205,  211.  Their 
commission  221.  Sealed  wts. 
and  steelyards  to  be  kept  at  ibid. 
WARRANTS. 
No  blank  warrant  to  issue,  or  be 


w. 


INDEX. 


W. 


599 


executed  257,  459.  Origin  of 
.warrants  for  small  debts  272. — 
Warrants,  how  to  issue,  during 
the  commonwealth  434.  Not 
to  be  executed  on  Sabbath  days 
or  at  a  muster  457. 

WARROSQJJOYACKE, 
One  of  the  original  counties  224. 
(Changed  to  Isle   of  Wight  in 
1637.) 

WARS.— See  Indians. 

WARWICK  RIVER, 

One  of  the  original  counties 224. 

Changed  to  Warwick  249. 

WARWICK, 

Warwick  River  county,  changed 

to  249.     Boundaries  of  250. 

WATCH, 

To  be  kept  at  night  127, 1 73. 1 98. 

WATERS'  CREEK,  ' 
Parish  established  278. 

WEIGHTS  &  MEASURES, 
To  be  sealed  by  officers  126.  Pe- 
nalty  for  using  defective  wts. 
171,  195.     To  be  provided  for 
the  warehouses  221.     To  con- 
form to  act  of  parliament  331, 
473.      Millers   to  provide  sta- 
tute 348.     Standard  to  be  kept 
at  the  courthouses  391. 
WEIRS, 
Taking  awny,   how    punishable 
170. 

WEST, 
John,  and  family  exempted  from 
levies,  in  consideration   of  the 
services  of  his  ancestors  547. 
WESTMORELAND, 
County,  boundaries  of  381. 

WESTOVER, 
Parish,  enlarged  375. 

WEST  PARISH, 
Formed  in  Upp.  Norfolk  coun- 
ty 251. 


WEYANOAKE  PARISH. 
Boundaries  of  251. 
WHEAT, 
Premium  for  making  470. 

WICCACOMICO, 
Indians,  desertion  of,  and  sale  of 
their  lands,  in  Northumberland 
515. 

WILLS, 
Where    to    be    proved    302-3. 
Proceedings  upon  303.      Con- 
struction of  a  will,   which    not 
using  words  of  perpetuity,  held 
an    estate    for    life  only   405. 
Administrator,  with  will  annex- 
ed, when  appointed  416,  480. 
WINES, 
Act  against  buying  repealed  226. 
Debts  for,  not  recoverable  287. 
The  last  act  repealed  295.    Re- 
vived 350.  Prices  of  in  taverns 
300,  446.    Penalty  for  fraudu- 
lently mixing,   ibid.     For  ex- 
ceeding legal  rates,  ibid.     Not 
to    be    retailed    by    merchants 
within  James  City  319.     Pre- 
mium for  making  470. 
WITNESSES, 
How  their  depositions  taken  304. 
In  criminal  cases  to  be  paid  by 
the  county  449. 

WOLVES, 
First  reward  for  killing,  permis- 
sion to  kill  a  wild  hog  199. 
Reward  for  killing,  payable  in 
tobacco  328.  County  courts 
may  establish  rewards  for  456. 
Indians  to  be  employed  to  kill 
457. 

WOMPOMPEEKE, 
A  species  of  coin  397. 

WOOL, 
Exportation  of  prohibited  488. 
Again  permitted  525. 


600 


w. 


INDEX. 


W. 


WORKMEN, 
Not  to  forsake  their  work,  unless 
for  non-payment  193.    To  fol- 
low their  trades  only  208. 
WRIT, 
Of  ease,   granted  to  a  commis- 
sioner of  a  county  court  546. 
WRITINGS,  OBLIGATORY, 
Actions  on,    limited  to  3  years, 
unless   renewed,  sued  upon  or 
recorded  390.     Extended  to  5 
years  483. 

WRITS, 
Not  to  be  directed  to  more  than 


one  sheriff,  unless  against  run- 
aways and  felons  257-8.  How 
to  issue  306,  434.  Under  what 
teste  346,  434.  Not  to  be  exe- 
cuted on  a  sabbath  day,  or  at 
musters  457.  To  issue  in  the 
name  of  the  grand  assembly 
530. 

YORK, 
Charles  River  county,  changed 
to  249.  Settlers  on,  their  lands 
confirmed  257. 


* 


KfV 


t 


v./ 


from  which  it  was  borrowed. 


3- 


w 


FAO 


fc 


13 


RETURNED 

m 


50m-5,'64(E5474s8)9482 


3  1205  002 


4  6585 


J 


UC  SOUTHERN  REGIONAL  LIBRARY  FACILITY 


AA      000  191955    4