^^ 


**%  % 


,  o  •  • , 


•  #i" 


WEBB'S 


FREEMASON'S  MONITOR: 

INCLUDING    .  ^E 

FIRST    THREE    DEGREES, 

WITH   THE 

FUNERAL  SERVICE  AND  OTHER  PUBLIC  C jsjj,  MONIES  ; 

—        TOGETHER   WITH 

MANY  USEFUL  FORMS. 

THE  WHOLE  SQUARING  WITH  THE  NATIONAL  WORK  OP  THE 

BALTIMOEE  CONVENTION, 

AS   TAUGHT   BY   THE 

Late  Bro.  JOHN  BARNEY,  Grand  Lecturer. 

COMPILED   BY 

JAMES   FENTON,  P.  M., 

AND  GRAND  SECRETARY  OF  THE  GRAND  LODGE  OF  MICHIGAN. 


CINCINNATI: 

PUBLISHED    BY    C.    MOOEE, 

AT    THE   MASONIC    REVIEW    OFFICE. 
1865. 


Entered  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  year  1865,  by 

JAMES    FENTON, 

In  the  Clerk's  Office  of  the  District  Court  of  the  United  States  for  the 
Eastern  District  of  Michigan. 


to  tjeiie  :m::e:m:o:el-z- 

OF 

BROTHER  JOHN  BARNEY, 

THAT  GOOD  MAN  AND  TKUE  MASON, 

TO  WHOSE  INSTRUCTIVE  TONGUE    FREEMASONRY  IN  THE  WEST  IS  SO  MUCH 
INDEBTED   FOR   THE   TRANSMISSION,   UNIMPAIRED,    OF  THE 

National  Work  of  the  Baltimore  Convention, 
THIS  LITTLE  WORK  IS  RESPECTFULLY  DEDICATED, 

BY  HIS  EARLY  PUPIL, 

The  Compiler, 


INTRODUCTORY. 


The  only  introduction  the  Compiler  will  give  this  little 
volume,  may  be  found  in  the  following  indorsements  by  dis- 
tinguished Craftsmen: 

"Having  examined  the  Freemason's  Monitor,  compiled  by 
Bro.  James  Fenton,  G.  S.  of  the  G.  L.  of  Michigan,  I  take 
pleasure  in  recommending  it  to  the  Fraternity.  The  ar- 
rangement of  the  first  three  degrees,  corresponding  with  the 
National  Work  and  Lectures,  as  established  in  this  jurisdic- 
tion, makes  it  an  invaluable  auxiliary  in  a  working  Lodge. 

"WM.  M.  FENTON, 

"  P.  G.  M.  of  the  G.  L.  of  Michigan. 
"  Flint,  Mich.,  July,  1865." 


"It  is  arranged,  seriatim,  with  our  work  and  lectures  in  the 
first  three  degrees,  as  we  work  and  lecture  in  Michigan,  and 
as  we  understand  our  Baltimore  or  National  Work  and  Lec- 
tures. 

"R.  P.  ELDRIDGE. 

"  Mt.  Clemens,  Mich.,  July,  1865." 


11 1  have  presided  over  a  Lodge  in  Baltimore  for  a  number 
of  years,  and  am  perfectly  familiar  with  the  National  Work, 
as  adopted  by  the  Baltimore  Convention.  I  have  examined 
the  proof-sheets  of  the  Monitor,  by  Bro.  Fenton,  and  believe 
it  conforms  to  that  work  in  every  essential  particular. 

"ROBERT  GWYNN,  P.  M., 

"Of  Arcana  Lodge,  No.  110." 
"Cincinnati,  July,  1865." 

(5) 


THE 


FREEMASON'S    MONITOR. 


CHAPTER  I. 

Origin  of  Masonry  and  its  General  Advantages. 

FROM  the  commencement  of  the  world  we  may 
trace  the  foundation  of  Masonry.  *  Ever  since 
symmetry  began,  and  harmony  displayed  her  charms, 
our  Order  has  had  a  being.  During  many  ages,  and 
in  many  different  countries,  it  has  flourished.  In  the 
dark  periods  of  antiquity,  when  literature  was  in  a 
low  state,  and  the  rude  manners  of  our  forefathers 
withheld  from  them  that  knowledge  we  now  so  amply 
share,  Masonry  diffused  its  influence.  This  science 
tmvailed,  arts  arose,  civilization  took  place,  and  the 
progress  of  knowledge  and  philosophy  gradually  dis- 
pelled the  gloom  of  ignorance  and  barbarism.  Gov- 
ernment being  settled,  authority  was  given  to  laws, 
and  the  assemblies  of  the  Fraternity  acquired  the  pat- 
ronage of  the  great  and  the  good,  while  the  tenets 

*  Masonry  and  Geometry  are  sometimes  used  as  synony- 
mous terms. 

7 


8  freemason's  monitor. 

of  the  profession  were  attended  with  unbounded 
utility. 

Masonry  is  a  science  confined  to  no  particular 
country,  but  diffused  over  the  whole  terrestrial  globe. 
Wherever  arts  flourish,  there  it  flourishes  too.  Add 
to  this,  that,  by  secret  and  inviolable  signs,  carefully 
preserved  among  the  Fraternity  throughout  the  world, 
Masonry  becomes  an  universal  language.  Hence 
many  advantages  are  gained:  the  distant  Chinese,  the 
wild  Arab,  and  the  American  savage  will  embrace  a 
brother  Briton,  Frank,  or  German;  and  will  know, 
that,  besides  the  common  ties  of  humanity,  there  is 
still  a  stronger  obligation  to  induce  him  to  kind  and 
friendly  offices.  The  spirit  of  the  fulminating  priest 
will  be  tamed ;  and  a  moral  brother,  though  of  a  dif- 
ferent persuasion,  engage  his  esteem.  Thus,  through 
the  influence  of  Masonry,  which  is  reconcilable  to 
the  best  policy,  all  those  disputes  which  embitter 
life,  and  sour  the  tempers  of  men,  are  avoided ;  while 
the  common  good,  the  general  design  of  the  Craft,  is 
zealously  pursued. 

From  this  view  of  the  system,  its  utility  must  be 
sufficiently  obvious.  The  universal  principles  of  the 
art  unite  men  of  the  most  opposite  tenets,  of  the 
most  distant  countries,  and  of  the  most  contradictory 
opinions  in  one  indissoluble  bond  of  affection,  so  that 
in  every  nation  a  Mason  finds  a  friend,  and  in  every 
climate  a  home. 


FREEMASON'S    MONITOR.  9 

CHAPTEE  H. 

The  Government  of  the  Fraternity  Explained. 

THE  mode  of  government  observed  by  the  Frater- 
nity will  best  explain  the  importance,  and  give 
the  truest  idea  of  the  nature  and  design  of  the  Ma- 
sonic system. 

There  are  several  classes  of  Masons,  under  different 
appellations.  The  privileges  of  these  classes  are  dis- 
tinct, and  particular  means  are  adopted  to  preserve 
those  privileges  to  the  just  and  meritorious  of  each 
class. 

Honor  and  probity  are  recommendations  to  the  first 
class,  in  which  the  practice  of  virtue  is  enforced,  and 
the  duties  of  morality  inculcated,  while  the  mind  is 
prepared  for  regular  and  social  converse  in  the  prin- 
ciples of  knowledge  and  philosophy. 

Diligence,  assiduity,  and  application  are  qualifi- 
cations for  the  second  class,  in  which  an  accurate 
elucidation  of  science,  both  in  theory  and  practice,  is 
given.  Here  human  reason  is  cultivated  by  a  due 
exertion  of  the  rational  and  intellectual  powers  and 
faculties,  nice  and  difficult  theories  are  explained, 
new  discoveries  produced,  and  those  already  known 
beautifully  embellished. 

The  third  class  is  composed  of  those  whom  truth 
and  fidelity  have  distinguished  ;  who,  when  assaulted 
by  threats  and  violence,  after  solicitation  and  persua- 
sion have  failed,  have  evinced  their  firmness  and  in- 


10  freemason's  monitor. 

tegrity  in  preserving  inviolate  the  mysteries  of  the 
Order. 

The  fourth  class  consists  of  those  who  have  per- 
severingly  studied  the  scientific  branches  of  the  art 
and  exhibited  proofs  of  their  skill  and  acquirements, 
and  who  have,  consequently,  obtained  the  honor  of 
this  degree  as  a  reward  of  merit. 

The  fifth  class  consists  of  those  who,  having  ac- 
quired a  proficiency  of  knowledge  to  become  teach- 
ers, have  been  elected  to  preside  over  regularly 
constituted  bodies  of  Masons. 

The  sixth  class  consists  of  those  who,  having  dis 
charged  the  duties  of  the  Chair  with  honor  and  rep 
utation,  are  acknowledged  and  recorded  as  excellent 
masters. 

The  seventh  class  consists  of  a  select  few,  whom 
years  and  experience  have  improved,  and  whom  merit 
and  abilities  have  entitled  to  preferment.  With  this 
class  the  ancient  landmarks  of  the  Order  are  pre- 
served ;  and  from  them  we  learn  and  practice  the 
necessary  and  instructive  lessons  which  at  once  dig- 
nify the  art,  and  qualify  its  professors  to  illustrate 
its  excellence  and  utility. 

This  is  the  established  mode  of  the  Masonic  gov- 
ernment when  the  rules  of  the  system  are  observed. 
By  this  judicious  arrangement,  true  friendship  is  cul- 
tivated among  different  ranks  and  degrees  of  men, 
hospitality  promoted,  industry  rewarded,  and  inge- 
nuity encouraged. 


freemason's  monitor.  11 

CHAPTER  III. 

The  Importance  of  the  Secrets  of  Masonry  Demonstrated. 

IF  the  secrets  of  Masonry  are  replete  with  such  ad- 
vantages to  mankind,  it  may  be  asked,  why  are 
they  not  divulged  for  the  general  good  of  society? 
To  which  it  may  be  answered  :  were  the  privileges  of 
Masonry  to  be  indiscriminately  bestowed,  the  design 
of  the  institution  would  be  subverted;  and,  being 
familiar,  like  many  other  important  matters,  would 
soon  lose  their  value  and  sink  into  disregard. 

It  is  a  weakness  in  human  nature,  that  men  are  gen- 
erally more  charmed  with  novelty  than  the  real  worth 
or  intrinsic  value  of  things.  Novelty  influences  all 
our  actions  and  determinations.  What  is  new,  or  diffi- 
cult in  the  acquisition,  however  trifling  or  insignifi- 
cant, readily  captivates  the  imagination,  and  insures  a 
temporary  admiration  ;  while  what  is  familiar,  or  easily 
obtained,  however  noble  and  eminent  for  its  utility,  is 
sure  to  be  disregarded  by  the  giddy  and  unthinking. 

Did  the  particular  secrets  or  peculiar  forms  preva- 
lent among  Masons  constitute  the  essence  of  the  art,  it 
might  be  alleged  that  our  amusements  were  trifling,  and 
our  ceremonies  superficial.  But  this  is  not  the  case. 
Having  their  use,  they  are  preserved ;  and,  from  the 
recollection  of  the  lessons  they  inculcate,  the  well- 
informed  Mason  derives  instruction.  Drawing  them 
to  a  near  inspection,  he  views  them  through  a  proper 
medium;    adverts   to  the   circumstances  which   gave 


12  freemason's  monitor. 

them  rise;  dwells  upon  the  tenets  they  convey;  and, 
finding  them  replete  with  useful  information,  adopts 
them  as  keys  to  the  privileges  of  his  art,  and  prizes 
them  as  sacred.  Thus  convinced  of  their  propriety, 
he  estimates  the  value  from  their  utility. 

Many  persons  are  deluded  by  their  vague  suppo- 
sition that  our  mysteries  are  merely  nominal  ;  that 
the  practices  established  among  us  are  frivolous ;  and 
that  our  ceremonies  might  be  adopted  or  waived  at 
pleasure.  On  this  false  foundation,  we  have  found 
them  hurrying  through  all  the  degrees,  without  ad- 
verting to  the  propriety  of  one  step  they  pursue,  or 
possessing  a  single  qualification  requisite  for  advance- 
ment. Passing  through  the  usual  formalities,  they 
have  accepted  offices,  and  assumed  the  government 
of  Lodges,  equally  unacquainted  with  the  rules  of  the 
institution  they  pretended  to  support,  or  the  nature 
of  the  trust  reposed  in  them.  The  consequence  is 
obvious ;  wherever  such  practices  have  been  allowed, 
anarchy  and  confusion  have  ensued,  and  the  sub- 
stance has  been  lost  in  the  shadow. 

Were  the  brethren  who  preside  over  Lodges  prop- 
erly instructed  previous  to  their  appointment,  and 
regularly  apprised  of  the  importance  of  their  respect- 
ive offices,  a  general  reformation  would  speedily  take 
place.  This  would  evince  the  propriety  of  our  mode 
of  government,  and  lead  men  to  acknowledge  that 
our  honors  were  deservedly  conferred.  The  ancient 
consequence  of  the  Order  would  be  restored,  and  the 


freemason's  monitor.  13 

reputation  of  the  Society  preserved.     Such  conduct 
alone   can   support   our    character. 

Unless  prudent  actions  shall  distinguish  our  title  to 
the  honors  of  Masonry,  and  regular  deportment  dis- 
play the  influence  and  utility  of  our  rules,  the  world 
in  general  will  not  easily  be  led  to  reconcile  our 
proceedings  with  the  tenets  of  our  profession. 


CHAPTEE  IV. 

General  Remarks. 


MASONRY  is  an  art  equally  useful  and  extens- 
ive. In  every  art  there  is  a  mystery,  which 
requires  a  gradual  progression  of  knowledge  to  arrive 
at  any  degree  of  perfection  in  it.  Without  much  in- 
struction, and  more  exercise,  no  man  can  be  skillful 
in  any  art;  in  like  manner,  without  an  assiduous  ap- 
plication to  the  various  subjects  treated  of  in  the 
different  lectures  of  Masonry,  no  person  can  be  suf- 
ficiently acquainted  with  its  true  value. 

It  must  not,  however,  be  inferred  from  this  re- 
mark, that  persons  who  labor  under  the  disadvant- 
ages of  a  confined  education,  or  whose  sphere  of 
life  requires  a  more  intense  application  to  business 
or  study,  are  to  be  discouraged  in  their  endeavors 
to  gain  a  knowledge  of  Masonry. 

To  qualify  an  individual  to  enjoy  the  benefits  of 


14  freemason's  monitor. 

the  Society  at  large,  or  to  partake  of  its  privileges, 
it  is  not  absolutely  necessary  that  he  should  be  ac- 
quainted with  all  the  intricate  parts  of  the  science. 
These  are  only  intended  for  the  diligent  and  assidu- 
ous Mason,  who  may  have  leisure  and  opportunity 
to  indulge  such  pursuits. 

Though  some  are  more  able  than  others,  some 
more  eminent,  some  more  useful,  yet  all,  in  their 
different  spheres,  may  prove  advantageous  to  the  com- 
munity. As  the  nature  of  every  man's  profession 
will  not  admit  of  that  leisure  which  is  necessary  to 
qualify  him  to  become  an  expert  Mason,  it  is  highly 
proper  that  the  official  duties  of  a  Lodge  should  be 
executed  by  persons  whose  education  and  situation 
in  life  enable  them  to  become  adepts ;  as  it  must  be 
allowed  that  all  who  accept  offices  and  exercise  au- 
thority should  be  properly  qualified  to  discharge 
the  task  assigned  them,  with  honor  to  themselves 
and  credit  to  their  sundry  stations. 


CHAPTER  V. 

The  Ceremony  of  Opening  and  Closing  a  Lodge. 

N  all  regular  assemblies  of  men  who  are  con- 
vened for  wise  and  useful  purposes,  the  com- 
mencement and  conclusion  of  business  are  accom- 
panied with   some  form.     In    every    country  of   the 


I 


freemason's  monitor.  15 

world  the  practice  prevails,  and  is  deemed  essential. 
From  the  most  remote  periods  of  antiquity  it  may 
be  traced,  and  the  refined  improvements  of  modern 
times  have  not  totally  abolished  it, 

Ceremonies,  when  simply  considered,  it  is  true,  are 
little  more  than  visionary  delusions,  but  their  effects 
are  sometimes  important.  When  they  impress  awe 
and  reverence  on  the  mind,  and  engage  the  attention, 
by  external  attraction,  to  solemn  rites,  they  are  in- 
teresting objects.  These  purposes  are  effected  by 
judicious  ceremonies,  when  regularly  conducted  and 
properly  arranged.  On  this  ground  they  have  re- 
ceived the  sanction  of  the  wisest  men  in  all  ages, 
and,  consequently,  could  not  escape  the  notice  of 
Masons.  To  begin  well  is  the  most  likely  means  to 
end  well ;  and  it  is  judiciously  remarked,  that,  when 
order  and  method  are  neglected  at  the  beginning, 
they  will  be  seldom  found  to  take  place  at  the  end. 

The  ceremony  of  opening  and  closing  a  Lodge  with 
solemnity  and  decorum  is,  therefore,  universally  ad- 
mitted among  Masons ;  and  though  the  mode  in  some 
Lodges  may  vary,  and  in  every  degree  must  vary,  still 
an  uniformity  m  the  general  practice  prevails  in 
every  Lodge ;  and  the  variation  (if  any)  is  solely  oc- 
casioned by  a  want  of  method,  which  a  little  appli- 
cation might  easily  remove. 

To  conduct  this  ceremony  with  propriety  ought 
to  be  the  peculiar  study  of  every  Mason,  especially 
of  those  who  have  the  honor  to  rule  in  our  assem- 


16  freemason's  monitor. 

blies.  To  persons  who  are  thus  dignified,  every  eye 
is  naturally  directed  for  propriety  of  conduct  and  be- 
havior;  and  from  them  other  brethren  who  are  less 
informed  will  naturally  expect  to  derive  an  example 
worthy  of  imitation. 

From  a  share  in  this  ceremony  no  Mason  can  be 
exempted.  It  is  a  general  concern  in  which  all 
must  assist.  This  is  the  first  request  of  the  master, 
and  the  prelude  to  all  business.  No  sooner  has  it 
been  signified,  than  every  officer  repairs  to  his  sta- 
tion, and  the  brethren  rank  according  to  their  de- 
grees. The  intent  of  the  meeting  becomes  the  sole 
object  of  attention,  and  the  mind  is  insensibly  drawn 
from  those  indiscriminate  subjects  of  conversation 
which  are  apt  to  intrude  on  our  less  serious  moments. 

This  effect  accomplished,  our  care  is  directed  to 
the  external  avenues  of  the  Lodge;  and  the  proper 
officers,  whose  province  it  is  to  discharge  that  duty, 
execute  their  trust  with  fidelity,  and  by  certain  mys- 
tic forms,  of  no  recent  date,  intimate  that  we  may 
safely  proceed.  To  detect  impostors  among  ourselves, 
an  adherence  to  order  in  the  character  of  Masons 
ensues,  and  the  Lodge  is  either  opened  or  closed  in 
solemn  form. 

At  opening  the  Lodge,  two  purposes  are  wisely 
effected  :  the  master  is  reminded  of  the  dignity  of 
his  character,  and  the  brethren  of  the  homage  and 
veneration  due  from  them  in  their  sundry  stations. 
These  are  not  the   only  advantages  resulting  from  a 


freemason's  monitor.  17 

due  observance  of  this  ceremony ;  a  reverential  awe 
for  the  Deity  is  inculcated,  and  the  eye  fixed  on  that 
object  from  whose  radiant  beams  light  only  can  be 
derived.  Here  we  are  taught  to  adore  the  God  of 
heaven,  and  to  supplicate  his  protection  on  our  well- 
meant  endeavors.  The  master  assumes  his  govern- 
ment in  due  form,  and  under  him  his  wardens,  who 
accept  their  trust,  after  the  customary  salutations, 
The  brethren,  then,  with  one  accord,  unite  in  duty 
and  respect,  and  the  ceremony  concludes. 

At  closing  the  Lodge,  a  similar  form  takes  place. 
Here  the  less  important  duties  of  Masonry  are  not 
passed  over  unobserved.  The  necessary  degree  of 
subordination  in  the  government  of  a  Lodge  is  pecul- 
iarly marked,  while  the  proper  tribute  of  gratitude 
is  offered  up  to  the  beneficent  Author  of  life,  and 
his  blessing  invoked  and  extended  to  the  whole  Fra- 
ternity. Each  brother  faithfully  locks  up  the  treas- 
ure he  has  acquired,  in  his  own  secret  repository, 
and,  pleased  with  his  reward,  retires  to  enjoy  and 
disseminate  among  the  private  circle  of  his  brethren 
the  fruits  of  his  labor  and  industry  in  the  Lodge. 

These  are  faint  outlines  of  a  ceremony  which  uni- 
versally prevails  among  Masons  in  every  country,  and 
distinguishes  all  their  meetings.  It  is  arranged  as  a 
general  section  in  every  degree,  and  takes  the  lead 
in  all  our  illustrations. 
2 


18  freemason's  monitor. 

A  CHARGE, 

Used  at   Opening  a  Lodge, 

"TOEHOLD!  how  good  and  how  pleasant 
-L*  it  is  for  brethren  to  dwell  together 
in  unity! 

It  is  like  the  precious  ointment  upon 
the  head,  that  ran  down  upon  the  beard, 
even  Aaron's  beard,  that  went  down  to 
the  skirts  of  his  garments : 

As  the  dew  of  Hermon,  and  as  the  dew 
that  descended  upon  the  mountains  of 
Zion:  for  there  the  Lord  commanded  the 
blessing,  even  life  for  evermore. 


A   PRAYER, 

Used  at   Closing  the  Lodge. 

AY  the  blessing  of  Heaven  rest 
-LTJL  upon  us,  and  all  regular  Masons! 
may  brotherly  love  prevail,  and  every 
moral  and  social  virtuse  cement  us! 
Amen. 


M' 


fbeehason's  monitor.  19 


CHAPTER  VI. 

Charges   and  Regulations  for  the  Conduct  and  Behavior 
of  Masons. 

A  REHEARSAL  of  the  ancient  charges  properly 
succeeds  the  opening,  and  precedes  the  closing 
of  a  Lodge.  This  was  the  constant  practice  of  our 
ancient  brethren,  and  ought  never  to  be  neglected 
in  our  regular  assemblies.  A  recapitulation  of  our 
duty  can  not  be  disagreeable  to  those  who  are  ac- 
quainted with  it;  and  to  those  who  know  it  not, 
should  any  such  be,  it  must  be  highly  proper  to 
recommend  it. 

ANCIENT   CHARGES. 

On  the  Management  of  the   Craft  in    Working. 

Masons  employ  themselves  diligently  in  their  sun- 
dry vocations,  live  creditably,  and  conform  with  cheer- 
fulness to  the  government  of  the  country  in  which 
they  reside. 

[The  most  expert  craftsman  is  chosen  or  appointed 
master  of  the  work,  and  is  duly  honored  by  those 
over  whom  he  presides. 

[The  master,  knowing  himself  qualified,  under- 
takes the  government  of  the  Lodge,  and  truly  dis- 
penses his  rewards,  giving  to  every  brother  the  ap- 
probation which  he  merits. 

[A  craftsman,  who  is  appointed  warden  of  the 
work  under    the  master,  is  true    to   master  and  fel- 


20  freemason's  monitor. 

lows,  carefully  oversees  the  work,  and  his  brethren 
obey  him.] 

The  master,  wardens,  and  brethren  receive  their 
rewards  justly,  are  faithful,  and  carefully  finish  the 
work  they  begin,  whether  it  be  in  the  first  or  second 
degree ;  but  never  put  that  work  to  the  first  which  has 
been  accustomed  to  the  second  degree,  nor  that  to  the 
second  or  first  which  has  been  accustomed  to  the  third. 

Neither  envy  nor  censure  is  discovered  among  true 
Masons.  No  brother  is  supplanted,  or  put  out  of  his 
work,  if  he  be  capable  to  finish  it;  as  no  man,  who 
is  not  perfectly  skilled  in  the  original  design,  can, 
with  equal  advantage  to  the  master,  finish  the  work 
begun  by  another. 

All  employed  in  Masonry  meekly  receive  their  re- 
wards, and  use  no  disobliging  name.  Brother  or 
fellow  are  the  terms  or  appellations  they  bestow  on 
each  other.  They  behave  courteously  within  and 
without  the  Lodge,  and  never  desert  the  master  till 
the  work  is  finished. 

LAWS 

For  the  Government  of  the  Lodge, 
You  are  to  salute  one  another  in  a  courteous  man- 
ner, agreeably  to  the  forms  established  among  Ma- 
sons;* you  are  freely  to  give  such  mutual  instruc- 
tion a  lodge,  Masons  meet  as  members  of  one  family;  all 
prejudices,  therefore,  on  account  of  religion,  country,  or  pri- 
vate opinion,  are  removed. 


freemason's  monitor.  21 

tions  as  shall  be  thought  necessary  or  expedient,  not 
being  overseen  or  overheard,  without  encroaching 
upon  each  other,  or  derogating  from  that  respect 
which  is  due  to  any  gentleman  were  he  not  a  Ma- 
son ;  for  though,  as  Masons,  we  rank  as  brethren  on 
a  level,  yet  Masonry  deprives  no  man  of  the  honor 
due  to  his  rank  or  character,  but  rather  adds  to  his 
honor,  especially  if  he  has  deserved  well  of  the  Fra- 
ternity, who  always  render  honor  to  whom  it  is  due, 
and  avoid  ill  manners. 

No  private  committees  are  to  be  allowed,  or  sepa- 
rate conversations  encouraged ;  the  master  or  ward- 
ens are  not  to  be  interrupted,  or  any  brother  speaking 
to  the  master ;  but  due  decorum  is  to  be  observed, 
and  the  proper  respect  paid  to  the  master  and  pre- 
siding officers. 

These  laws  are  to  be  strictly  enforced,  that  har- 
mony may  be  preserved,  and  the  business  of  the 
Lodge  be  carried  on  with  order  and  regularity. 
Amen.     So  mote  it  be. 

CHARGE, 

On  the  Behavior  of  Masons  out  of  the  Lodge. 
When  the  Lodge  is  closed,  you  may  enjoy  your- 
selves with  innocent  mirth;  but  you  are  carefully 
to  avoid  excess.  You  are  not  to  compel  any 
brother  to  act  contrary  to  his  own  inclination,  or 
give  offense  by  word  or  deed,  but  enjoy  a  free  and 
easy  conversation.     You    are    to  use  no  immoral  or 


22  freemason's  monitor. 

obscene  discourse,  but  at  all  times  support  with  pro- 
priety the  dignity  of  your  character. 

You  are  to  be  cautious  in  your  words  and  car- 
riage, that  the  most  penetrating  stranger  may  not 
discover,  or  find  out,  what  is  not  proper  to  be  in- 
timated; and,  if  necessary,  you  are  to  wave  a  dis- 
course, and  manage  it  prudently,  for  the  honor  of 
the  Fraternity. 

At  home,  and  in  your  several  neighborhoods,  you 
are  to  behave  as  wise  and  moral  men.  You  are 
never  to  communicate  to  your  families,  friends,  or 
acquaintance,  the  private  transactions  of  our  differ- 
ent assemblies ;  but  upon  every  occasion  to  consult 
your  own  honor  and  the  reputation  of  the  Fraternity 
at  large. 

You  are  to  study  the  preservation  of  health,  by 
avoiding  irregularity  and  intemperance,  that  your 
families  may  not  be  neglected  and  injured,  or  your- 
selves disabled  from  attending  to  your  necessary  em- 
ployments in  life. 

If  a  stranger  apply  in  the  character  of  a  Mason, 
you  are  cautiously  to  examine  him  in  such  a  method 
as  prudence  may  direct,  and  agreeably  to  the  forms 
established  among  Masons,  that  you  may  not  be  im- 
posed upon  by  an  ignorant,  false  pretender,  whom 
you  are  to  reject  with  contempt;  and  beware  of 
giving  him  any  secret  hints  of  knowledge.  But  if 
you  discover  him  to  be  a  true  and  geDuine  brother, 
you  are  to  respect   him;  if  he  be  in  want,  you  are 


freemason's  monitor.  23 

to  relieve  him,  or  direct  him  how  he  may  be  re- 
lieved ;  you  are  to  employ  him,  or  recommend  him 
to  employment:  however,  you  are  never  charged 
to  do  beyond  your  ability ;  only  to  prefer  a  poor 
brother,  who  is  a  good  man  and  true,  before  any 
other  person  in  the    same  circumstances. 

Finally :  These  rules  you  are  always  to  observe  and 
enforce,  and  also  the  duties  which  have  been  com- 
municated in  the  lectures ;  cultivating  brotherly  love, 
the  foundation  and  cap-stone,  the  cement  and  glory 
of  this  ancient  Fraternity ;  avoiding,  upon  every  oc- 
casion, wrangling  and  quarreling,  slandering  and 
backbiting ;  not  permitting  others  to  slander  honest 
brethren,  but  defending  their  characters,  and  doing 
them  good  offices  as  far  as  may  be  consistent  with 
your  honor  and  safety,  but  no  further.  Hence  all 
may  see  the  benign  influence  of  Masonry,  as  all  true 
Masons  have  done  from  the  beginning  of  the  world, 
and  will  do  to  the  end  of  time.  Amen,  So  mote 
it  be. 


CHAPTER  VII. 

Prerequisites  for   a   Candidate. 

BY  a  late  regulation  adopted  by  most  of  the 
Grand  Lodges  in  America,  no  candidate  for  the 
mysteries  of  Masonry  can  be  initiated  without  having 
been  proposed  at  a  previous  regular  meeting  of  the 


24  freemason's  monitor. 

Lodge,  in  order  that  no  one  may  be  introduced 
without  due  inquiry  relative  to  his  character  and 
qualifications. 

All  applications  for  initiation  should  be  made  by 
petition  in  writing,  signed  by  the  applicant,  giving 
an  account  of  his  age,  quality,  occupation,  and  place 
of  residence,  and  that  he  is  desirous  of  being  ad- 
mitted a  member  of  the  Fraternity  ;  which  petition 
should  be  kept  on  file  by  the  Secretary. 

FORM    OF   A   PETITION, 

To  he  Presented  hy  a   Candidate  for  Initiation. 

TO   the   worshipful   Master,   "Wardens, 
and  Brethren  of Lodge  of  Free 

and  Accepted  Masons. 

The  petition  of  the  subscriber  respect- 
fully showeth  that,  having  long  entertained 
a  favorable  opinion  of  your  ancient  insti- 
tution, he  is  desirous  of  being  admitted  a 
member  thereof,  if  found  worthy. 

His   place   of    residence   is    ;    his 

age,  years;  his  occupation,  . 

{Signed)  A.  B. 

After  this  petition  is  read,  the  candidate  must 
be  proposed  in  form  by  a  member  of  the  Lodge, 
and   the   proposition  seconded    by  another  member: 


freemason's  monitor.  25 

a  committee  is  then  appointed  to  make  inquiry  rela- 
tive to  his  character  and  qualifications. 

DECLARATION 

To  be    assented    to  by  a   Candidate,  in  an   adjoining 
apartment,  previous  to  Initiation. 

DO  you  seriously  declare,  upon  your 
honor,  before  these  gentlemen,*  that, 
unbiased  by  friends,  and  uninfluenced  by 
mercenary  motives,  you  freely  and  volun- 
tarily offer  yourself  a  candidate  for  the 
mysteries  of  Masonry?     I  do. 

Do  you  seriously  declare,  upon  your 
honor,  before  these  gentlemen,  that  you 
are  prompted  to  solicit  the  privileges  of 
Masonry  by  a  favorable  opinion  conceived 
of  the  institution,  a  desire  of  knowledge, 
and  a  sincere  wish  of  being  serviceable 
to  your  fellow  creatures?     I  do. 

Do  you  seriously  declare,  upon  your 
honor,  before  these  gentlemen,  that  you 
will  cheerfully  conform  to  all  the  ancient 
established  usages  and  customs  of  the 
Fraternity?     I  do. 

*  The  Stewards  of  the  Lodge  are  usually  present. 


26  freemason's  monitor. 

After  the  above  declarations  are  made  and  re- 
ported to  the  Master,  he  makes  it  known  to  the 
Lodge,  in  manner  following,  viz. : 

Brethren  : 

At  the  request  of  Mr.  A.  B.,  he  has 
been  proposed  and  accepted  in  regular 
form;  I  therefore  recommend  him  as  a 
proper  candidate  for  the  mysteries  of 
Masonry,  and  worthy  to  partake  of  the 
privileges  of  the  Fraternity ;  and,  in  con- 
sequence of  a  declaration  of  his  inten- 
tions, voluntarily  made,  I  believe  he  will 
cheerfully  conform  to  the  rules  of  the 
Order." 

If  there  are  then  no  objections  made,  the  candi- 
date is  introduced  in  due  form. 


CHAPTER  VIII. 

Bemarks  on  the  First  Lecture. 

"E  shall  now  enter  on  a  disquisition  of  the 
different  sections  of  the  lectures  appropri- 
ated to  the  several  degrees  of  Masonry,  giving  a 
brief  summary  of  the  whole,  and  annexing  to  every 
remark  the  particulars  to  which  the  section  alludes. 


freemason's  monitor.  27 

By  these  means  the  industrious  Mason  will  be  in- 
structed in  the  regular  arrangement  of  the  sections 
in  each  lecture,  and  be  enabled  with  more  ease  to 
acquire  a  knowledge  of  the  art. 

The  first  lecture  of  Masonry  is  divided  into  three 
sections,  and  each  section  into  different  clauses. 
Virtue  is  painted  in  the  most  beautiful  colors,  and 
the  duties  of  morality  are  enforced.  In  it  we  are 
taught  such  useful  lessons  as  prepare  the  mind  for 
a  regular  advancement  in  the  principles  of  knowl- 
edge and  philosophy.  These  are  imprinted  on  the 
memory  by  lively  and  sensible  images,  to  influence 
our  conduct  in  the  proper  discharge  of  the  duties 
of  social  life. 

The  First  Section 
tn  this  lecture  is  suited  to  all  capacities,  and  may 
and  ought  to  be  known  by  every  person  who  ranks  as 
a  Mason.  It  consists  of  general  heads,  which,  though 
short  and  simple,  carry  weight  with  them.  They 
not  only  serve  as  marks  of  distinction,  but  com- 
municate useful  and  interesting  knowledge,  when 
they  are  duly  investigated.  They  qualify  us  to  try 
and  examine  the  rights  of  others  to  our  privileges, 
while  they  prove  ourselves  ;  and,  as  they  induce  us 
to  inquire  more  minutely  into  other  particulars  of 
greater  importance,  they  serve  as  an  introduction  to 
subjects  more  amply  explained  in  the  following  sec- 
tions. 


28  freemason's  monitor. 

A    PRAYER, 

Used  at  the  Initiation  of  a  Candidate. 

VOUCHSAFE  thine  aid,  Almighty 
Father  of  the  Universe,  to  this  our 
present  convention ;  and  grant  that  this 
candidate  for  Masonry  may  dedicate  and 
devote  his  life  to  thy  service,  and  be- 
come a  true  and  faithful  brother  among 
us !  Indue  him  with  a  competency  of 
thy  Divine  wisdom,  that,  by  the  secrets 
of  our  art,  he  may  be  better  enabled  to 
display  the  beauties  of  brotherly  love,  re- 
lief, and  truth,  to  the  honor  of  thy  holy 
name !     Amen. 

It  is  a  duty  incumbent  on  every  Master  of  a  Lodge, 
before  tbe  ceremony  of  initiation  takes  place,  to  in- 
form the  candidate  of  the  purpose  and  desigu  of  the 
institution ;  to  explain  the  nature  of  his  solemn  en- 
gagements ;  and,  in  a  manner  peculiar  to  Masons 
alone,  to  require  his  cheerful  acquiescence  to  the 
duties  of  morality  and  virtue,  and  all  the  sacred 
tenets  of  the  Order. 


freemason's  monitor.  29 

BEHOLD!  how  good  and  how  pleasant 
it  is  for  brethren  to  dwell  together 
in  unity ! 

It  is  like  the  precious  ointment  upon 
the  head,  that  ran  down  upon  the  beard, 
even  Aaron's  beard,  that  went  down  to 
the  skirts  of  his  garments: 

As  the  dew  of  Hermon,  and  as  the  dew 
that  descended  upon  the  mountains  of 
Zion :  for  there  the  Lord  commanded  the 
blessing,  even  life  for  evermore. 

Toward  the  close  of  the  section  is  explained  that 
peculiar  ensign  of  Masonry, 

THE  LAMB-SKIN, 

Or  white  leather  apron,  which  is  an  emblem 
of  innocence,  and  the  badge  of  a  Mason : 
more  ancient  than  the  Golden  Fleece  or 
Roman  Eagle;  more  honorable  than  the 
Star  and  Garter,  or  any  other  Order  that 
could  be  conferred  upon  the  candidate  at 
the  time  of  his  initiation,  or  at  any  time 
thereafter,  by  king,  prince,  potentate,  or 


30  freemason's  monitor. 

any  other  person,  except  he  be  a  Mason; 
and  which  every  one  ought  to  wear  with 
equal  pleasure  to  himself,  and  honor  to 
the  Fraternity. 

This  section  closes  with  an  explanation 
of  the  working  tools  and  implements  of  an 
entered  apprentice,  which  are,  the  twenty- 
four-inch  gauge  and  the  common  gavel. 

THE  TWENTY-FOUR-INCH  GAUGE 

Is  an  instrument  made  use  of  by  operative 
Masons,  to  measure  and  lay  out  their  work ; 
but  we,  as  Free  and  Accepted  Masons,  are 
taught  to  make  use  of  it  for  the  more  no- 
ble and  glorious  purpose  of  dividing  our 
time.  It  being  divided  into  twenty-four 
equal  parts  is  emblematical  of  the  twenty- 
four  hours  of  the  day,  which  we  are  taught 
to  divide  into  three  equal  parts,  whereby 
we  find  a  portion  for  the  service  of  God 
and  a  distressed  worthy  brother ;  a  portion 
for  our  usual  avocations ;  and  a  portion  for 
refreshment  and  sleep. 


freemason's  monitor.  31 

THE  COMMON  GAVEL 

Is  an  instrument  made  use  of  by  operative 
Masons  to  break  off  the  corners  of  rough 
stones,  the  better  to  fit  them  for  the  build- 
er's use;  but  we,  as  Free  and  Accepted 
Masons,  are  taught  to  make  use  of  it  for 
the  more  noble  and  glorious  purpose  of 
divesting  our  minds  and  consciences  of  all 
the  vices  and  superfluities  of  life,  thereby 
fitting  our  bodies,  as  living  stones,  for  that 
spiritual  building — that  house  not  made 
with  hands,  eternal  in  the  heavens. 

The  Second  Section 

Rationally  accounts  for  the  origin  of  our  hieroglyph- 
ical  instruction,  and  convinces  us  of  the  advantages 
which  will  ever  accompany  a  faithful  observance 
of  our  duty.  It  maintains,  beyond  the  power  of 
contradiction,  the  propriety  of  our  rites,  while  it 
demonstrates  to  the  most  skeptical  and  hesitating 
mind  their  excellency  and  utility ;  it  illustrates,  at  the 
same  time,  certain  particulars,  of  which  our  ignorance 
might  lead  us  into  error,  and  which,  as  Masons,  we 
are  indispensably  bound  to  know 

To  make  a  daily  progress  in  the  art  is  our  con- 
stant  duty,  and   expressly  required   by  our   general 


32  freemason's  monitor. 

laws.  What  end  can  be  more  noble  than  the  pursuit 
of  virtue?  what  motive  more  alluring  than  the  prac- 
tice of  justice?  or  what  instruction  more  beneficial 
than  an  accurate  elucidation  of  symbolical  mysteries 
which  tend  to  embellish  and  adorn  the  mind?  Every 
thing  that  strikes  the  eye  more  immediately  engages 
the  attention,  and  imprints  on  the  memory  serious 
and  solemn  truths  :  hence  Masons,  universally  adopt- 
ing this  method  of  inculcating  the  tenets  of  their 
Order  by  typical  figures  and  allegorical  emblems, 
prevent  their  mysteries  from  descending  into  the  fa- 
miliar reach  of  inattentive  and  unprepared  novices, 
from  whom  they  might  not  receive  due  veneration. 

Our  records  inform  us  that  the  usages  and  customs 
of  Masons  have  ever  corresponded  with  those  of  the 
Egyptian  philosophers,  to  which  they  bear  a  near 
affinity.  Unwilling  to  expose  their  mysteries  to  vul- 
gar eyes,  they  concealed  their  particular  tenets  and 
principles  of  polity  under  hieroglyphical  figures,  and 
expressed  their  notions  of  government  by  signs  and 
symbols,  which  they  communicated  to  their  Magi 
alone,  who  were  bound  by  oath  not  to  reveal  them. 
The  Pythagorean  system  seems  to  have  been  estab- 
lished on  a  similar  plan,  and  many  Orders  of  a  more 
recent  date.  Masonry,  however,  is  not  only  the  most 
ancient,  but  the  most  moral  institution  that  ever  sub- 
sisted ;  every  character,  figure,  and  emblem  depicted 
in  a  Lodge  has  a  moral  tendency,  and  inculcates  the 
practice  of  virtue. 


freemason's  monitor.  33 


THE    BADGE    OF    A    MASON. 

EVERY  candidate,  at   his  initiation,  is  presented 
with  a  lamb-skin,  or  white  leather  apron. 

The  lamb  has,  in  all  ages,  been  deemed 
an  emblem  of  innocence;  he,  therefore, 
who  wears  the  lamb-skin  as  a  badge  of 
Masonry,  is  thereby  continually  reminded 
of  that  purity  of  life  and  conduct  which  is 
essentially  necessary  to  his  gaining  admis- 
sion into  the  Celestial  Lodge  above,  where 
the  Supreme  Architect  of  the  Universe 
presides. 

The   Tliird  Section 

Explains  the  nature  and  principles  of  our 
constitution,  and  teaches  us  to  discharge 
with  propriety  the  duties  of  our  respective 
stations.  Here,  too,  we  receive  instruction 
relative  to  the  form,  supports,  cover- 
ing, FURNITURE,  ORNAMENTS,  LIGHTS,  and 

jewels  of  a  Lodge,  how  it  should  be  situ- 
ated,  and   to  whom   dedicated;    and   our 

attention  is  directed  to  the 
3 


34  freemason's  monitor. 

HOLY  BIBLE, 

*l»  »1»  vt»  vt»  vl»  «4»  »^  »t» 

^  *X»  »X»  *T*  *T*  *v*  *T*  *T* 

Which  is  always  open  when  the  Lodge 
is  at  work,  and  which  is  considered  by 
Masons  to  be  as  indispensable  as  a 

CHARTER 

Or  warrant  from  the  Grand  Lodge  em- 
powering them  to  work. 

From  east  to  west  Freemasonry  extends, 
and  between  the  north  and  south,  in  every 
clime  and  nation,  are  Masons  to  be  found, 
either  on  the 

HIGH  HILL 

Of  prosperity,  or  in  the 

LOW  VALE 
Of  adversity. 

Our  institution  is  said  to  be  supported 
by 

WISDOM,  STRENGTH,  AND  BEAUTY; 

Because  it  is  necessary  that  there  should 
be  wisdom  to  contrive,  strength  to  support, 


FREEMASON'S    MONITOR.  35 

and  beauty  to  adorn  all  great  and  import- 
ant undertakings. 

ITS  DIMENSIONS 

Are  unlimited,  and 

ITS  COVERING 

No  less  than  a  clouded  canopy  or  a 
starry-decked  heaven.  To  this  object  the 
Mason's  mind  is  continually  directed,  and 
thither  he  hopes  at  last  to  arrive,  by  the 
aid  of  the 

THEOLOGICAL  LADDER, 

Which  Jacob,  in  his  vision,  saw  ascending 
from  earth  to  heaven ;  the 

THREE  PRINCIPAL  ROUNDS 

Of  which  are  donominated  faith,  hope,  and 
charity,  and  which  admonish  us  to  have 
faith  in  Grod,  hope  in  immortality,  and 
charity  to  all  mankind. 

vt*  %l*  O/  vU  «4*  %&  +1?  ^k 

*f%  *f+  *f+  #y*  >y*  *t»  *Y*  *l* 

Every  well-governed  Lodge  is 
FURNISHED 
With  the  Holy  Bible,  the  Square,  and  the 


36  freemason's  monitor. 

Compass.     The  Bible  points  out  the  path 

that  leads  to  happiness,  and  is  dedicated 

to  God;  the  square  teaches  us  to  regulate 

our  conduct  by  the  principles  of  morality 

and  virtue,  and  is  dedicated  to  the  Master ; 

the  compass  teaches  us  to  limit  our  desires 

in  every  station,  and  is  dedicated  to  the 

Craft 

THE  BIBLE 

Is  dedicated  to  the  service  of  God,  because 
it  is  the  inestimable  gift  of  Grod  to  man ; 

kL»  «J>  «J>  vL»    »J>  vL»  %S* 

*j+  *j+  #y%  *y»  *\*  *j*  *f%  /f* 

the  square  to  the  Master,  because,  being 
the  proper  Masonic  emblem  of  his  office, 
it  is  constantly  to  remind  him  of  the  duty 
he  owes  to  the  Lodge  over  which  he  is 
appointed  to  preside ;  and  the  compass  to 
the  Craft,  because,  by  a  due  attention  to 
its  use,  they  are  taught  to  regulate  their 
desires  and  keep  their  passions  within  due 
bounds. 

THE  ORNAMENTAL 

Parts  of  a  Lodge  displayed  in  this  section 
are,  the  Mosaic  pavement,  the  indented  tes- 
sel,  and  the  blazing  star.     The  Mosaic  pave- 


freemason's  monitor.  37 

ment  is  a  representation  of  the  ground 
floor  of  King  Solomon's  Temple ;  the  in- 
dented tessel,  that  beautiful  tesselated  bor- 
der or  skirting  which  surrounded  it;  and 
the  blazing  star  in  the  center  is  commemo- 
rative of  the  star  which  appeared  to  guide 
the  wise  men  of  the  East  to  the  place  of 
our  Savior's  nativity.  The  Mosaic  pave* 
ment  is  emblematic  of  human  life,  check- 
ered with  good  and  evil;  the  beautiful 
border  which  surrounds  it,  those  blessings 
and  comforts  which  surround  us,  and  which 
we  hope  to  obtain  by  a  faithful  reliance  on 
Divine  Providence,  which  is  hieroglyphic- 
ally  represented  by  the  blazing  star  in  the 
center. 


THE  MOVABLE  AND  IMMOVABLE  JEWELS 
Also  claim  our  attention  in  this  section. 

The  rough  ashler  is  a  stone  as  taken  from 
the  quarry  in  its  rude  and  natural  state. 
The  perfect  ashler  is  a  stone  made  ready  by 


38  freemason's  monitor. 

the  hands  of  the  workman,  to  be  adjusted 
by  the  tools  of  the  fellow-craft.  The  tres- 
tle-board is  for  the  Master  workman  to 
draw  his  designs  upon. 

By  the  rough  ashler  we  are  reminded  of 
our  rude  and  imperfect  state  by  nature; 
by  the  perfect  ashler,  that  state  of  perfec- 
tion at  which  we  hope  to  arrive  by  a  vir- 
tuous education,  our  own  endeavors,  and 
the  blessing  of  God ;  and  by  the  trestle- 
board  we  are  reminded  that,  as  the  opera- 
tive workman  erects  his  temporal  building 
agreeably  to  the  rules  and  designs  laid 
down  by  the  Master  on  his  trestle-board, 
so  should  we,  both  operative  and  specula- 
tive, endeavor  to  erect  our  spiritual  build- 
ing agreeably  to  the  rules  and  designs  laid 
down  by  the  Supreme  Architect  of  the 
Universe  in  the  Book  of  Life,  or  the 
Holy  Scriptures,  which  is  our  spiritual 
trestle-board. 

In  this  section  likewise  our  attention  is 
called  to  those  important  tools  of  a  Mason, 
the 


freemason's  monitor.  39 

SQUARE,  LEVEL,  AND  PLUMB, 
And  their  uses  are  explained. 


TO  WHOM  DEDICATED. 
By  a  recurrence  to  the  chapter  upon  the 
dedication  of  Lodges,  it  will  be  perceived 
that,  although  our  ancient  brethren  dedi- 
cated their  Lodges  to  King  Solomon,  yet 
Masons  professing  Christianity  dedicate 
theirs  to  St.  John  the  Baptist  and  St. 
John  the  Evangelist,  who  were  eminent 
patrons  of  Masonry ;  and  since  their  time 
there  is  represented  in  every  regular  and 
well-governed  Lodge  a  certain 

POINT  WITHIN  A  CIRCLE ; 
The  point  representing  an  individual  broth- 
er; the  circle  representing  the  boundary 
line  of  his  duty  to  God  and  man,  beyond 
which  he  is  never  to  suffer  his  passions, 
prejudices  or  interest  to  betray  him  on 
any  occasion.     This  circle  is   embordered 


40  freemason's  monitor. 

by  two  perpendicular  parallel  lines,  rep- 
resenting St.  John  the  Baptist,  and  St. 
John  the  Evangelist,  who  were  perfect 
parallels  in  Christianity  as  well  as  Ma- 
sonry ;  and  upon  the  vertex  rests  the  book 
of 

HOLY  SCRIPTURES, 

Which  points  out  the  whole  duty  of  man. 
In  going  round  this  circle,  we  necessarily 
touch  upon  these  two  lines,  as  well  as  upon 
the  Holy  Scriptures ;  and  while  a  Mason 
keeps  himself  thus  circumscribed,  it  is 
impossible  that  he  should  materially  err. 

This  section,  though  the  last  in  rank,  is  not  the 
least  considerable  in  importance.  It  strengthens 
those  which  precede,  and  enforces  in  the  most  en- 
gaging manner  a  due  regard  to  character  and  be- 
havior in  public  as  well  as  in  private  life,  in  the 
Lodge  as  well  as  in  the  general  commerce  of  so- 
ciety. It  forcibly  inculcates  the  most  instructive 
lessons.  Brotherly  love,  relief,  and  truth  are  themes 
on  which  we  here  expatiate. 

OF  BROTHERLY  LOVE. 

By  the  exercise  of  brotherly  love,  we 
are   taught   to   regard  the  whole  human 


freemason's  monitor  41 

species   as    >ne  family,  the  high   and  Low, 
the  rich      :  1   poor :    wh         -     :    sited  by 

one  Almighty  Parent^  and  inhabitants 
or'  the  -.::_:  ■;". anet.  are  to  aid.  support 
and  protect  ::::_  ::her.  On  :dis  princi- 
ple Masonry  unites  men  of  every  country, 
soot,  and  :pini.  n.  and  conciliates  true 
friendship  among  those  whe  might  tia  a- 
se  have  remained  at  :,  perpetual  dis- 
tance. 

HB  RELIEF. 

To  relieve  the  distressed  is  a  duty 
incumbent  on  all  men:  bnt  particularly 
hi  Masons,  irhc  a: a  linked  together  by 
sin  indissoluble  dooin  of  sincere  affec- 
tion. T  ;■  soothe  the  unhappy,  to  sympa- 
thize with  their  misfortunes,  to  compas- 
sionate their  miseries,  and  :;  rest  >re  [  aa  ae 
t_  their  troubled  minds,  is  the  grand  aim 
we  have  in  via~v.  On  this  basis  we  form 
;a.a  friendships  and  establish  our  connec- 
tions 

;r  truth. 

Truth    is    a    Divine  attribute,    and    the 

foundation   of   every  virtue.     To  be   £:ood 


42  freemason's  monitor. 

and  true  is  the  first  lesson  we  are  taught 
in  Masonry.  On  this  theme  we  contem- 
plate, and  by  its  dictates  endeavor  to 
regulate  our  conduct;  hence,  while  in- 
fluenced by  this  principle,  hypocrisy  and 
deceit  are  unknown  among  us,  sincerity 
and  plain  dealing  distinguish  us,  and  the 
heart  and  tongue  join  in  promoting  each 
other's  welfare,  and  rejoicing  in  each 
other's  prosperity. 

To  this  illustration  succeeds  an  explanation  of  the 
four  cardinal  virtues — Temperance,  Fortitude,  Prudence, 
and  Justice;  the  illustration  of  which  virtues  is  accom- 
panied with  some  general  observations  peculiar  to 
Masons. 

TEMPERANCE 

Is  that  due  restraint  upon  our  affections 
and  passions  which  renders  the  body  tame 
and  governable,  and  frees  the  mind  from 
the  allurements  of  vice.  This  virtue 
should  be  the  constant  practice  of  ever}7- 
Mason,  as  he  is  thereby  taught  to  avoid 
excess,  or  contracting  any  licentious  or 
vicious  habit,  the  indulgence  of  which 
might  lead  him  to  disclose  some  of  those 


freemason's  monitor.  43 

valuable  secrets  which  he  has  promised 
to  conceal-  and  never  reveal,  and  which 
would  consequently  subject  him  to  the 
contempt  and  detestation  of  all  good 
Masons. 

FORTITUDE 
Is  that  noble  and  steady  purpose  of  the 
mind  whereby  we  are  enabled  to  undergo 
any  pain,  peril,  or  danger,  when  pruden- 
tially  deemed  expedient.  This  virtue  is 
equally  distant  from  rashness  and  coward- 
ice, and,  like  the  former,  should  be  deeply 
impressed  upon  the  mind  of  every  Mason, 
as  a  safeguard  or  security  against  any 
illegal  attack  that  may  be  made,  by  force 
or  otherwise,  to  extort  from  him  any  of 
those  secrets  with  which  he  has  been  so 
solemnly  intrusted,  and  which  was  em- 
blematically represented  upon  his  first  ad- 
mission into  the  Lodge. 

vL»  vL»  vL»  vL*  vt*  *1*  «d*  +lf 

•^f*  #y%  #y*  *7*»  *j%  •'J*  #j*  #Y* 

PRUDENCE 
Teaches    us    to    regulate    our    lives    and 
actions  agreeably  to   the  dictates  of  rea 


44  freemason's  monitor. 

son,  and  is  that  habit  by  which  we  wisely 
judge  and  prudentially  determine  on  all 
things  relative  to  our  present  as  well  as  to 
our  future  happiness.  This  virtue  should 
be  the  peculiar  characteristic  of  every 
Mason,  not  only  for  the  government  of  his 
conduct  while  in  the  Lodge,  but  also  when 
abroad  in  the  world ;  it  should  be  particu- 
larly attended  to  in  all  strange  and  mixed 
companies,  never  to  let  fall  the  least  sign, 
token,  or  word  whereby  the  secrets  of 
Masonry  might  be  unlawfully  obtained, 

*±*  *x*  *£?  *sL*  ^l>#  *&?  "st*  *4* 

•*y%  *j%  *j*  *'!"%  *y*  *j+  *T*  *T* 

JUSTICE 
Is  that  standard  or  boundary  of  right, 
which  enables  us  to  render  to  every  man  his 
just  due,  without  distinction.  This  virtue 
is  not  only  consistent  with  Divine  and 
human  laws,  but  is  the  very  cement  and 
support  of  civil  society ;  and,  as  justice  in 
a  great  measure  constitutes  the  real  good 
man,  so  should  it  be  the  invariable  prac- 
tice of  every  Mason  never  to  deviate  from 
the  minutest  principles  thereof, 


freemason's  monitor.  45 

The  distinguishing  characteristics  of  the 
aspirant  for  Masonic  honors  should  be 

FREEDOM,  FERVENCY,  AND  ZEAL. 

The  exercise  of  these  qualities  will  in- 
evitably assure  an  appropriate  and  lasting 
reward 

Such  is  the  arrangement  of  the  different  sections 
in  the  first  lecture,  which,  with  the  forms  adopted  at 
the  opening  and  closing  of  a  Lodge,  comprehends 
the  whole  of  the  first  degree  of  Masonry.  This  plan 
has  the  advantage  of  regularity  to  recommend  it,  the 
support  of  precedent  and  authority,  and  the  sanction 
and  respect  which  flow  from  antiquity.  The  whole 
is  a  regular  system  of  morality,  conceived  in  a  strain 
of  interesting  allegory,  which  must  unfold  its  beau- 
ties to  the  candid  and  industrious  inquirer. 

CHARGE 

At  Initiation  into  the  First  Degree, 

BROTHER:  As  you  are  now  introduced 
into  the  first  principles  of  Masonry, 
I  congratulate  you  on  being  accepted  into 
this  ancient  and  honorable  Order — ancient, 
as  having  subsisted  from  time  immemorial ; 
and  honorable,  as  tending,  in  every  par- 


46  freemason's  monitor. 

ticular,  so  to  render  all  men  who  will  be 
conformable  to  its  precepts.  No  institu- 
tion was  ever  raised  on  a  better  principle 
or  more  solid  foundation ;  nor  were  ever 
more  excellent  rules  and  useful  maxims 
laid  down  than  are  inculcated  in  the 
several  Masonic  lectures.  The  greatest 
and  best  of  men  in  all  ages  have  been 
encouragers  and  promoters  of  the  art,  and 
have  never  deemed  it  derogatory  from 
their  dignity  to  level  themselves  with 
the  Fraternity,  extend  their  privileges, 
and  patronize  their  assemblies. 

There  are  three  great'  duties,  which, 
as  a  Mason,  you  are  charged  to  incul- 
cate— to  God,  your  neighbor,  and  yourself. 
To  God,  in  never  mentioning  his  name 
but  with  that  reverential  awe  which  is 
due  from  a  creature  to  his  Creator;  to 
implore  his  aid  in  all  your  laudable  under- 
takings, and  to  esteem  him  as  your  chief 
good :  to  your  neighbor,  in  acting  upon  the 
square,  and  doing  unto  him  as  you  wish  he 
should  do  unto  you:  and  to  yourself,  in 
avoiding   all   irregularity    and   intemper- 


freemason's  monitor.  47 

ance,  which,  may  impair  your  faculties,  or 
debase  the  dignity  of  your  profession.  A 
zealous  attachment  to  these  duties  will 
insure  public  and  private  esteem. 

In  the  state,  you  are  to  be  a  quiet  and 
peaceful  subject,  true  to  your  government, 
and  just  to  your  country ;  you  are  not  to 
countenance  .disloyalty  or  rebellion,  but 
patiently  submit  to  legal  authority,  and 
conform  with  cheerfulness  to  the  govern- 
ment of  the  country  in  which  you  live. 

In  your  outward  demeanor  be  particu- 
larly careful  to  avoid  censure  or  reproach. 
Let  not  interest,  favor,  or  prejudice  bias 
your  integrity,  or  influence  you  to  be 
guilty  of  a  dishonorable  action.  Although 
your  frequent  appearance  at  our  regular 
meetings  is  earnestly  solicited,  yet  it  is 
not  meant  that  Masonry  should  interfere 
with  your  necessary  vocations,  for  these 
are  on  no  account  to  be  neglected ;  neither 
are  you  to  suffer  your  zeal  for  the  institu- 
tion to  lead  you  into  argument  with  those 
who,  through  ignorance,  may  ridicule  it. 
At  your  leisure  hours,  that  you  may  im- 


48  freemason's  monitor. 

prove  in  Masonic  knowledge,  you  are  to 
converse  with  well-informed  brethren,  who 
will  be  always  as  ready  to  give  as  you 
will  be  ready  to  receive  instruction. 

Finally :  keep  sacred  and  inviolable 
the  mysteries  of  the  Order,  as  these  are 
to  distinguish  you  from  the  rest  of  the 
community,  and  mark  your  consequence 
among  Masons.  If,  in  the  circle  of  your 
acquaintance,  you  find  a  person  desirous 
of  being  initiated  into  Masonry,  be  par- 
ticularly attentive  not  to  recommend  him 
unless  you  are  convinced  he  will  conform 
to  our  rules ;  that  the  honor,  glory,  and 
reputation  of  the  institution  may  be  firmly 
established,  and  the  world  at  large  con- 
vinced of  its  good  effects. 


CHAPTER  IX. 


Bemarks  on  the  Second  Degree. 

MASONRY  is  a  progressive  science,  and  is  di- 
vided into  two  different  classes  or  degrees,  for 
the  more  regular  advancement  in  the  knowledge  of 
its  mysteries.  According  to  the  progress  we  make, 
we  limit  or  extend  our  inquiries;  and  in  proportion 


freemason's  monitor.  49 

to  our  capacity,  we  attain  to  a  less  or  greater  degree 
of  perfection. 

Masonry  includes  within  its  circle  almost  every 
branch  of  polite  learning.  Under  the  vail  of  its 
mysteries  is  comprehended  a  regular  system  of  sci- 
ence. Many  of  its  illustrations,  to  the  confined  gen- 
ius, may  appear  unimportant;  but  the  man  of  more 
enlarged  faculties  will  perceive  them  to  be,  in  the 
highest  degree,  useful  and  interesting.  To  please 
the  accomplished  scholar  and  ingenious  artist,  Ma- 
sonry is  wisely  planned,  and,  in  the  investigation  of 
its  latent  doctrines,  the  philosopher  and  mathema- 
tician may  experience  equal  delight  and  satisfaction. 

To  exhaust  the  various  subjects  of  which  it  treats 
would  transcend  the  powers  of  the  brightest  genius  ; 
still,  however,  nearer  approaches  to  perfection  may  be 
made,  and  the  man  of  wisdom  will  not  check  the  prog- 
ress of  his  abilities,  though  the  task  he  attempts  may 
at  first  seem  insurmountable.  Perseverance  and  appli- 
cation remove  each  difficulty  as  it  occurs  ;  every  step 
he  advances  new  pleasures  open  to  his  view,  and 
instruction  of  the  noblest  kind  attends  his  researches. 
In  the  diligent  pursuit  of  knowledge,  the  intellectual 
faculties  are  employed  in  promoting  the  glory  of 
God  and  the  good  of  man. 

The  first  degree  is  well  calculated  to  enforce  the 
duties  of  morality,  and  imprint  on  the  memory  the 
noblest  principles  which  can  adorn  the  human  mind. 
It  is,  therefore,  the  best  introduction  to  the  second 


50  freemason's  monitor. 

degree,  which  not  only  extends  the  same  plan,  but 
comprehends  a  more  diffusive  system  of  knowledge. 
Here  practice  and  theory  join  in  qualifying  the 
industrious  Mason  to  share  the  pleasures  which  an 
advancement  in  the  art  must  necessarily  afford.  List- 
ening with  attention  to  the  wise  opinions  of  expe- 
rienced craftsmen  on  important  subjects,  he  grad- 
ually familiarizes  his  mind  to  useful  instruction,  and 
is  soon  enabled  to  investigate  truths  of  the  utmost 
concern  in  the   general  transactions  of  life. 

From  this  system  proceeds  a  rational  amusement; 
while  the  mental  powers  are  fully  employed,  the 
judgment  is  properly  exercised ;  a  spirit  of  emula- 
tion prevails ;  and  all  are  induced  to  vie,  who.  shall 
most  excel  in  promoting  the  valuable  rules  of  the 
institution. 

The  First   Section 

Of  the  second  degree  accurately  elucidates  the 
mode  of  introduction  into  that  particular  class,  and 
instructs  the  diligent  craftsman  how  to  proceed  in 
the  proper  arrangement  of  the  ceremonies  used  on 
the  occasion.  It  qualifies  him  to  judge  of  their  im- 
portance, and  convinces  him  of  the  necessity  of 
strictly  adhering  to  every  established  usage  of  the 
Order.  Here  he  is  intrusted  with  particular  tests,  to 
enable  him  to  prove  his  title  to  the  privileges  of  this 
degree,  while  satisfactory  reasons  are  given  for  their 
origin.     Many  duties,  which    cement,   in   the  firmest 


freemason's  monitor.  51 

union,  well-informed  brethren,  are  illustrated  in  this 
section  ;  and  an  opportunity  is  given  to  make  such 
advances  in  Masonry  as  will  always  distinguish  the 
abilities  of  those  who  have  arrived  at  preferment. 
The  knowledge  of  this  section  is  absolutely  necessary 
for  all  craftsmen,  and,  as  it  recapitulates  the  ceremony 
of  initiation,  and  contains  many  other  important  par- 
ticulars, no  officer  or  member  of  a  Lodge  should  be 
unacquainted  with  it. 

THE  PLUMB,  SQUARE,  AND  LEVEL, 

Those  noble  and  useful  implements  of  a  fellow- 
craft,  are  here  introduced  and  moralized,  and  serve 
as  a  constant  admonition  to  the  practice  of  virtue  and 
morality. 

The  plumb  is  an  instrument  made  use  of 
by  operative  Masons,  to  raise  perpendicu- 
lars ;  the  square,  to  square  their  work  ;  and 
the  level,  to  lay  horizontals  ;  but  we,  as  Free 
and  Accepted  Masons,  are  taught  to  make 
use  of  them  for  more  noble  and  glorious 
purposes  ;  the  plumb  admonishes  us  to  walk 
uprightly  in  our  several  stations  before 
God  and  man,  squaring  our  actions  by  the 
square  of  virtue,  and  remembering  that  we 
are  traveling  upon  the  level  of  time  to  that 


52  freemason's  monitor. 

"  undiscovered  country  from  whose  bourn 
no  traveler  returns." 

The    Second    Section 

Of  this  degree  has  recourse  to  the  origin  of  the 
institution,  and  views  Masonry  under  two  denomina- 
tions, operative  and  speculative.  These  are  separately 
considered,  and  the  principles  on  which  both  are 
founded  particularly  explained.  Their  affinity  is 
pointed  out  by  allegorical  figures  and  typical  repre- 
sentations. The  period  stipulated  for  rewarding  merit 
is  fixed,  and  the  inimitable  moral  to  which  that  cir- 
cumstance alludes  is  explained;  the  creation  of  the 
world  is  described,  and  many  particulars  recited,  all 
of  which  have  been  carefully  preserved  among  Ma- 
sons, and  transmitted  from  one  age  to  another  by 
oral  tradition. 

Circumstances  of  great  importance  to  the  Frater- 
nity are  here  particularized,  and  many  traditional 
tenets  and  customs  confirmed  by  sacred  and  profane 
record.  The  celestial  and  terrestrial  globes  are  con- 
sidered; and  here  the  accomplished  gentleman  may 
display  his  talents  to  advantage,  in  the  elucidation 
of  the  Orders  of  Architecture,  the  Senses  of  human 
nature,  and  the  liberal  Arts  and  Sciences,  which  are 
severally  classed  in  a  regular  arrangement.  In  short, 
this  section  contains  a  store  of  valuable  knowledge, 
founded  on  reason  and  sacred  record,  both  entertain- 
ing and  instructive. 


freemason's  monitor.  53 

Masonry  is  considered  under  two  denominations — 
operative  and  speculative. 

OPERATIVE   MASONRY. 

By  operative  Masonry  we  allude  to  a 
proper  application  of  the  useful  rules  of 
architecture,  whence  a  structure  will  de- 
rive figure,  strength,  and  beauty,  and 
whence  will  result  a  due  proportion  and  a 
just  correspondence  in  all  its  parts.  It 
furnishes  us  with  dwellings,  and  conven- 
ient shelters  from  the  vicissitudes  and  in- 
clemencies of  the  seasons ;  and,  while  it 
displays  the  effects  of  human  wisdom,  as 
well  in  the  choice  as  in  the  arrangement 
of  the  sundry  materials  of  which  an  edifice 
is  composed,  it  demonstrates  that  a  fund  of 
science  and  industry  is  implanted  in  man 
for  the  best,  most  salutary,  and  beneficent 
purposes. 

SPECULATIVE    MASONRY. 

By  speculative  Masonry  we  learn  to  sub- 
due the  passions,  act  upon  the  square,  keep 
a  tongue  of  good  report,  maintain  secrecy, 
and  practice  charity.     It  is  so  far  inter- 


54  freemason's  monitor. 

woven  with  religion  as  to  lay  us  under  ob- 
ligations to  pay  that  rational  homage  to 
the  Deity,  which  at  once  constitutes  our 
duty  and  our  happiness.  It  leads  the  con- 
templative to  view  with  reverence  and  ad- 
miration the  glorious  works  of  the  creation, 
and  inspires  him  with  the  most  exalted 
ideas  of  the  perfections  of  his  Divine  Cre- 
ator. 

In  six  days  God  created  the  heavens  and 
the  earth,  and  rested  upon  the  seventh  day ; 
the  seventh,  therefore,  our  ancient  breth- 
ren consecrated  as  a  day  of  rest  from  their 
labors,  thereby  enjoying  frequent  opportu- 
nities to  contemplate  the  glorious  works 
of  the  creation,  and  to  adore  their  great 
Creator. 

The  doctrine  of  the  spheres  is  included 
in  the  science  of  astronomy,  and  particu- 
larly considered  in  this  section. 

Here  are  introduced  and  explained  emblems  of 
PEACE,  UNITY,  AND  PLENTY. 


freemason's   monitor.  55 

OF  THE  GLOBES. 

THE  globes  are  two  artificial  spherical 
bodies,  on  the  convex  surface  of  which 
are  represented  the  countries,  seas,  and 
various  parts  of  the  earth,  the  face  of  the 
heavens,  the  planetary  revolutions,  and 
other  particulars. 

The  sphere  with  the  parts  of  the  earth 
delineated  on  its  surface  is  called  the  ter- 
restrial globe ;  and  that  with  the  constel- 
lations and  other  heavenly  bodies,  the  ce- 
lestial globe. 

THE  USE  OF  THE  GLOBES. 

Their  principal  use,  besides  serving  as 
maps  to  distinguish  the  outward  parts  of 
the  earth,  and  the  situation  of  the  fixed 
stars,  is  to  illustrate  and  explain  the  phe- 
nomena arising  from  the  annual  revolution 
and  the  diurnal  rotation  of  the  earth  round 
its  owrn  axis.  They  are  the  noblest  instru- 
ments for  improving  the  mind,  and  giving 
it  the  most  distinct  idea  of  any  problem 
or  proposition,  as  wrell  as  enabling  it  to 


56  freemason's   monitor. 

solve  the  same.  Contemplating  these  bod- 
ies, we  are  inspired  with  a  due  reverence 
for  the  Deity  and  his  wrorks,  and  are  in- 
duced to  encourage  the  studies  of  astron- 
omy, geography,  navigation,  and  the  arts 
dependent  on  them,  by  which  society  has 
been  so  much  benefited. 

The  orders  of  architecture  come  under  considera- 
tion in  this  section ;  a  brief  description  of  them  may, 
therefore,  not  be  improper. 

OF  ORDER  IN  ARCHITECTURE. 

"DY  order  in  architecture  is  meant  a 
"^  system  of  all  the  members,  propor- 
tions, and  ornaments  of  columns  and  pilas- 
ters ;  or,  it  is  a  regular  arrangement  of 
the  projecting  parts  of  a  building,  which, 
united  with  those  of  a  column,  form  a  beau- 
tiful, perfect,  and  complete  wiiole. 

OF   ITS   ANTIQUITY. 

From  the  first  formation  of  society, 
order  in  architecture  may  be  traced. 
When  the  rigor  of  seasons  obliged  men  to 
contrive  shelter  from  the  inclemency  of 


freemason's  monitor.  57 

the  weather,  we  learn  that  they  first 
planted  trees  on  end,  and  then  laid  others 
across  to  support  a  covering.  The  bands 
which  connected  those  trees  at  top  and 
bottom  are  said  to  have  given  rise  to  the 
idea  of  the  base  and  capital  of  pillars ; 
and  from  this  simple  hint  originally  pro- 
ceeded the  more  improved  art  of  archi- 
tecture. 

The  five  orders  are  thus  classed :    the 
Tuscan,  Doric,  Ionic,  Corinthian,  and  Com- 

posite. 

THE    TUSCAN 

Is  the  most  simple  and  solid  of  the  five 
orders.  It  was  invented  in  Tuscany, 
whence  it  derives  its  name.  Its  column  is 
seven  diameters  high ;  and  its  capital, 
base,  and  entablature  have  but  few  mold- 
ings. The  simplicity  of  the  construction 
of  this  column  renders  it  eligible  where 
ornament  would  be  superfluous. 

THE    DORIC, 

Which  is  plain  and  natural,  is  the  most 
ancient,  and  was  invented  by  the  Greeks. 


58  freemason's  monitor. 

Its  column  is  eight  diameters,  high,  and 
has  seldom  any  ornaments  on  base  or  cap- 
ital, except  moldings  ;  though  the  frieze  is 
distinguished  by  triglyphs  and  metopes, 
and  triglyphs  compose  the  ornaments  of 
the  frieze.  The  solid  composition  of  this 
order  gives  it  a  preference  in  structures 
where  strength  and  noble  simplicity  are 
chiefly  required. 

The  Doric  is  the  best  proportioned  of 
all  the  orders ;  the  several  parts  of  which 
it  is  composed  are  founded  on  the  natural 
position  of  solid  bodies.  In  its  first  inven- 
tion it  was  more  simple  than  in  its  present 
state.  In  after  times,  when  it  began  to  be 
adorned,  it  gained  the  name  of  Doric  ;  for 
when  it  was  constructed  in  its  primitive 
and  simple  form,  the  name  of  Tuscan  was 
conferred  on  it.  Hence  the  Tuscan  pre- 
cedes the  Doric  in  rank,  on  account  of  its 
resemblance  to  that  pillar  in  its  original 

state. 

THE   IONIC 

Bears  a  kind  of  mean  proportion  between 
the  more  solid  and  delicate  orders.     Its 


freemason's  monitor.  59 

column  is  nine  diameters  high;  its  capital 
is  adorned  with  volutes,  and  its  cornice 
has  dentals.  There  is  both  delicacy  and 
ingenuity  displayed  in  this  pillar,  the 
invention  of  which  is  attributed  to  the 
Ionians,  as  the  famous  Temple  of  Diana 
at  Ephesus  was  of  this  order.  It  is  said 
to  have  been  formed  after  the  model  of  an 
agreeable  young  woman,  of  an  elegant 
shape,  dressed  in  her  hair,  as  a  contrast  to 
the  Doric  order,  which  was  formed  after 
that  of  a  strong,  robust  man. 

THE    CORINTHIAN, 

The  richest  of  the  five  orders,  is  deemed  a 
masterpiece  of  art.  Its  column  is  ten 
diameters  high,  and  its  capital  is  adorned 
with  two  rows  of  leaves  and  eight  volutes, 
which  sustain  the  abacus.  The  frieze  is 
ornamented  with  curious  devices,  the  cor- 
nice with  dentals  and  modillions. 

This  order  is  used  in  stately  and  superb 
structures.  It  was  invented  at  Corinth, 
by  Callimachus,  who  is  said  to  have  taken 
the  hint  of  the  capital  of  this  pillar  from 


60  freemason's  monitor. 

the  following  remarkable  circumstance : 
Accidentally  passing  by  the  tomb  of  a 
young  lady,  he  perceived  a  basket  of  toys, 
covered  with  a  tile,  placed  over  an  acan- 
thus root,  having  been  left  there  by  her 
nurse.  As  the  branches  grew  up,  they 
encompassed  the  basket,  till,  arriving  at 
the  tile,  they  met  with  an  obstruction,  and 
bent  downward.  Callimachus,  struck  with 
the  object,  set  about  imitating  the  figure : 
the  base  of  the  capital  he  made  to  repre- 
sent the  basket ;  the  abacus  the  tile ;  and 
the  volutes  the  bending  leaves. 

THE    COMPOSITE 

Is  compounded  of  the  other  orders,  and 
was  contrived  by  the  Romans.  Its  capital 
has  the  two  rows  of  leaves  of  the  Corinth- 
ian, and  the  volutes  of  the  Ionic.  Its 
column  has  the  quarter-round,  as  the  Tus- 
can and  Doric  order;  is  ten  diameters 
high,  and  its  cornice  has  dentals  or  simple 
modillions.  This  pillar  is  generally  found 
in  buildings  where  strength,  elegance  and 
beauty  are  displayed. 


freemason's   monitor.  61 

OF  THE  INVENTION  OF  ORDER  IN  ARCHI- 
TECTURE. 

The  ancient  and  original  orders  of  archi- 
tecture, revered  by  Masons,  are  no  more 
than  three,  the  Doric,  Ionic,  and  Cor- 
inthian, which  were  invented  by  the 
Greeks.  To  these  the  Romans  have  added 
two :  the  Tuscan,  which  they  made  plainer 
than  the  Doric;  and  the  Composite,  wThich 
was  more  ornamental,  if  not  more  beauti- 
ful, than  the  Corinthian.  The  first  three 
orders  alone,  however,  show  invention  and 
particular  character,  and  essentially  differ 
from  each  other;  the  two  others  have 
nothing  but  what  is  borrowed,  and  differ 
only  accidentally :  the  Tuscan  is  the  Doric 
in  its  earliest  state ;  and  the  Composite  is 
the  Corinthian,  enriched  with  the  Ionic. 
To  the  Greeks,  therefore,  and  not  to  the 
Romans,  we  are  indebted  for  what  is  great, 
judicious,  and  distinct  in  architecture. 


62  freemason's  monitor. 

OF    THE  FIVE  SENSES 

OF    HUMAN    NATURE. 

AN  analysis  of  the  human  faculties  is  next  given 
in  this  section,  in  which  the  five  external  senses 
particularly  claim  attention  ;  these  are :  hearing,  see- 
ing,  feeling,  smelling,  and  tasting. 

HEARING 

Is  that  sense  by  which  we  distinguish 
sounds,  and  are  capable  of  enjoying  all 
the  agreeable  charms  of  music.  By  it  we 
are  enabled  to  enjoy  the  pleasures  of 
society,  and  reciprocally  to  communicate 
to  each  other  our  thoughts  and  intentions, 
our  purposes  and  desires ;  while  thus  our 
reason  is  capable  of  exerting  its  utmost 
power  and  energy. 

The  wise  and  beneficent  Author  of  Na- 
ture intended,  by  the  formation  of  this 
sense,  that  wre  should  be  social  creatures, 
and  receive  the  greatest  and  most  import- 
tint  part  of  our  knowledge  by  the  informa- 
tion of  others.  For  these  purposes  we 
are  endowed  with  hearing,  that  by  a  proper 


freemason's  monitor.  63 

exertion  of  our  rational  powers,  our  hap- 
piness may  be  complete. 

SEEING 

Is  that  sense  by  which  we  distinguish 
objects,  and  in  an  instant  of  time,  without 
change  of  place  or  situation,  view  armies 
in  battle  array,  figures  of  the  most  stately 
structures,  and  all  the  agreeable  variety 
displayed  in  the  landscape  of  nature.  By 
this  sense  we  find  our  way  in  the  pathless 
ocean,  traverse  the  globe  of  earth,  de- 
termine its  figure  and  dimensions,  and  de- 
lineate any  region  or  quarter  of  it.  By  it 
we  measure  the  planetary  orbs,  and  make 
new  discoveries  in  the  sphere  of  the  fixed 
stars.  Nay,  more :  by  it  we  perceive  the 
tempers  and  dispositions,  the  passions  and 
affections  of  our  fellow-creatures,  when* 
they  wish  most  to  conceal  them ;  so  that, 
though  the  tongue  may  be  taught  to  lie 
and  dissemble,  the  countenance  would  dis- 
play the  hypocrisy  to  the  discerning  eye. 
In  fine,  the  rays  of  light,  which  administer 
to  this   sense,    are   the   most   astonishing 


64  freemason's  monitor. 

parts  of  the  animated  creation,  and  render 
the  eye  a  peculiar  object  of  admiration. 

Of  all  the  faculties,  sight  is  the  noblest. 
The  structure  of  the  eye,  and  its  appurte- 
nances, evinces  the  admirable  contrivance 
of  Nature  for  performing  all  its  various  ex- 
ternal and  internal  motions;  while  the  va- 
riety displayed  in  the  eyes  of  different 
animals,  suited  to  their  several  ways  of 
life,  clearly  demonstrates  this  organ  to  be 
the  masterpiece  of  Nature's  work. 

FEELING 

Is  that  sense  by  which  we  distinguish  the 
different  qualities  of  bodies;  such  as  heat 
and  cold,  hardness  and  softness,  roughness 
and  smoothness,  figure,  solidity,  motion, 
and  extension. 

These  three  senses,  Hearing,  Seeing,  and 
Feeling,  are  deemed  peculiarly  essential 
among  Masons. 

SMELLING 

Is  that  sense  by  which  we  distinguish 
odors,  the  various  kinds  of  which  convey 


freemason's  monitor,  65 

different  impressions  to  the  mind.  Ani- 
mal and  vegetable  bodies,  and,  indeed^ 
most  other  bodies,  while  exposed  to  the 
air,  continually  send  forth  effluvia  of  vast 
subtilty,  as  well  in  the  state  of  life  and 
growth,  as  in  the  state  of  fermentation 
and  putrefaction,  These  effluvia,  being 
drawn  into  the  nostrils  along  with  the  air, 
are  the  means  by  which  all  bodies  are 
smelled.  Hence  it  is  evident  that  there 
is  a  manifest  appearance  of  design  in  the 
great  Creator's  having  planted  the  organ 
of  smell  in  the  inside  of  that  canal 
through  which  the  air  continually  passes 
in  respiration. 

TASTING 

Enables  us  to  make  a  proper  distinction 
in  the  choice  of  our  food.  The  organ  of 
this  sense  guards  the  entrance  of  the  ali- 
mentary canal,  as  that  of  smelling  guards 
the  entrance  of  the  canal  for  respiration. 
From  the  situation  of  both  these  organs 
it  is  plain  that  they  were  intended  by  Na- 
ture to  distinguish  wholesome  food  from 


66  freemason's   monitor. 

that  which  is  nauseous.  Every  thing  that 
enters  into  the  stomach  must  undergo  the 
scrutiny  of  tasting;  and  by  it  we  are 
capable  of  discerning  the  changes  w7hich 
the  same  body  undergoes  in  the  different 
compositions  of  art,  cookery,  chemistry, 
pharmacy,  etc. 

Smelling  and  tasting  are  inseparably 
connected,  and  it  is  by  the  unnatural  kind 
of  life  men  commonly  lead  in  society,  that 
these  senses  are  rendered  less  fit  to  per- 
form their  natural  offices. 

On  the  mind  all  our  knowledge  must 
depend:  what,  therefore,  can  be  a  more 
proper  subject  for a  the  investigation  of 
Masons  ?  By  anatomical  dissection  and 
observation  we  become  acquainted  with 
the  body;  but  it  is  by  the  anatomy  of  the 
mind  alone  we  discover  its  powrers  and 
principles. 

To  sum  up  the  whole  of  this  transcend- 
ent measure  of  Grod's  bounty  to  man,  we 
shall  add,  that  memory,  imagination,  taste, 
reasoning,  moral  perception,  and  all  the 
active  powers  of  the  soul,  present  a  vast 


freemason's  monitor.  67 

and  boundless  field  for  philosophical  dis- 
quisition, which  far  exceeds  human  in- 
quiry, and  are  peculiar  mysteries,  known 
only  to  nature  and  to  nature's  God,  to 
whom  we  and  all  are  indebted  for  crea- 
tion, preservation,  and  every  blessing  we 
enjoy. 

OF    THE    SEVEN    LIBERAL    ARTS 

.  AND    SCIENCES. 

THE  seven  liberal  Aets  and  Sciences 
are  next  illustrated  in  this  section: 
it  may  not,  therefore,  be  improper  to  in- 
sert here  a  short  explanation  of  them. 

GRAMMAR 

Teaches  the  proper  arrangement  of  words, 
according  to  the  idiom  or  dialect  of  any 
particular  people;  and  that  excellency  of 
pronunciation  which  enables  us  to  speak 
or  write  a  language  with  accuracy,  agree- 
ably to  reason  and  correct  usage. 

RHETORIC 

Teaches  us  to  speak  copiously  and  fluently 
on  any  subject,  not  merely  with  propriety, 


68  freemason's  monitor. 

but  with  all  the  advantages  of  force  and 
elegance;  wisely  contriving  to  captivate 
the  hearer  by  strength  of  argument  and 
beauty  of  expression,  whether*  it  be  to  en- 
treat or  exhort,  to  admonish  or  applaud. 

LOGIC 

Teaches  us  to  guide  our  reason  discretion- 
ally  in  the  general  knowledge  of  things, 
and  directs  our  inquiries  after  truth.  It 
consists  of  a  regular  train  of  argument, 
whence  we  infer,  deduce,  and  conclude, 
according  to  certain  premises  laid  down, 
admitted,  or  granted;  and  in  it  are  em- 
ployed the  faculties  of  conceiving,  judg- 
ing, reasoning,  and  disposing;  all  of  which 
are  naturally  led  on  from  one  gradation  to 
another,  till  the  point  in  question  is  finally 
determined. 

ARITHMETIC 

Teaches  the  powers  and  properties  of 
numbers,  which  is  variously  effected,  by 
letters,  tables,  figures,  and  instruments. 
By  this  art,  reasons  and  demonstrations 


freemason's  monitor.  69 

are  given  for  finding  out  any  certain  num- 
ber, whose  relation  or  affinity  to  another 
is  already  known  or  discovered. 

GEOMETRY 

Treats  of  the  powers  and  properties  of 
magnitudes  in  general,  where  length, 
breadth,  and  thickness  are  considered, 
from  a  point  to  a  line,  from  a  line  to  a 
superficies,  and  from  a  superficies  to  a 
solid. 

A  point  is  a  dimensionless  figure,  or 
an  indivisible  part  of  space. 

A  line  is  a  point  continued,  and  a 
figure  of  one  capacity,  namely,  length. 

A  superficies  is  a  figure  of  two  dimen- 
sions, namely,  length  and  breadth. 

A  solid  is  a  figure  of  three  dimensions, 
namely,  length,  breadth,  and  thickness. 

OF  THE  ADVANTAGES  OF  GEOMETRY. 

By  this  science,  the  architect  is  en- 
abled to  construct  his  plans  and  execute 
his  designs;  the  general  to  arrange  his 
soldiers ;  the  engineer  to  mark  out  ground 


70  freemason's  monitor. 

for  encampments  ;  the  geographer  to  give 
us  the  dimensions  of  the  world,  and  all 
things  therein  contained  ;  to  delineate  the 
extent  of  seas,  and  specify  the  divisions 
of  empires,  kingdoms,  and  provinces  ;  by 
it,  also,  the  astronomer  is  enabled  to 
make  his  observations,  and  to  fix  the 
duration  of  times  and  seasons,  years  and 
cycles.  In  fine,  geometry  is  the  founda- 
tion of  architecture,  and  the  root  of  the 
mathematics. 

MUSIC 

Teaches  the  art  of  forming  concords,  so 
as  to  compose  delightful  harmony,  by  a 
mathematical  and  proportional  arrange- 
ment of  acute,  grave,  and  mixed  sounds. 
This  art,  by  a  series  of  experiments,"  is 
reduced  to  a  demonstrative  science,  with 
respect  to  tones,  and  the  intervals  of 
sound.  It  inquires  into  the  nature  of 
concords  and  discords,  and  enables  us  to 
find  out  the  proportion  between  them  by 
numbers. 


freemason's  monitor.  71 

ASTRONOMY 

Is  that  Divine  art  by  which  we  are . 
taught  to  read  the  wisdom,  strength,  and 
beauty  of  the  Almighty  Creator,  in  those 
sacred  pages,  the  celestial  hemisphere. 
Assisted  by  astronomy,  we  can  observe  the 
motions,  measure  the  distances,  compre- 
hend the  magnitudes,  and  calculate  the 
periods  and  eclipses  of  the  heavenly  bodies. 
By  it  we  learn  the  use  of  the  globes,  the 
system  of  the  world,  and  the  preliminary 
law  of  nature.  While  we  are  employed 
in  the  study  of  this  science,  we  must  per- 
ceive unparalleled  instances  of  wisdom  and 
goodness,  and,  through  the  whole  creation, 
trace  the  glorious  Author  by  his  works. 

After  this  follows  an  emblem  of  plenty,  which  is 
symbolically  explained : 

CORN, 

WINE, 

OIL. 


G 


72  freemason's  monitor. 

OF  THE  MORAL  ADVANTAGES  OF 
GEOMETRY. 

From  this  theme  we  proceed  to  illustrate  the  moral 
advantages  of  Geometry,  a  subject  on  which  the  fol- 
lowing observations  may  not  be  unacceptable. 

Geometry,  the  first  and  noblest  of  sci- 
ences, is  the  basis  on  which  the  superstruc 
ture  of  Masonry  is  erected.  By  geometry 
we  may  curiously  trace  nature,  through  hei 
various  windings,  to  her  most  concealed 
recesses.  By  it  we  discover  the  power, 
the  wisdom,  and  the  goodness  of  the  Grand 
Artificer  of  the  Universe,  and  view  with 
delight  the  proportions  which  connect  this 
vast  machine.  By  it  we  discover  how  the 
planets  move  in  their  different  orbits,  and 
demonstrate  their  various  revolutions.  By 
it  we  account  for  the  return  of  seasons,  and 
the  variety  of  scenes  which  each  season 
displays  to  the  discerning  eye.  Number- 
less worlds  are  around  us,  all  framed  by 
the  same  Divine  Artist,  which  roll  through 
the  vast  expanse,  and  are  all  conducted 
by  the  same  unerring  law  of  nature. 


V 


freemason's  monitor.  73 

A  survey  of  nature,  and  the  observation 
of  her  beautiful  proportions,  first  determ- 
ined man  to  imitate  the  Divine  plan,  and 
study  symmetry  and  order.  This  gave 
rise  to  societies,  and  birth  to  every  useful 
art.  The  architect  began  to  design;  and 
the  plans  which  he  laid  down,  being  im- 
proved by  experience  and  time,  have  pro- 
duced works  which  are  the  admiration  of 
every  age. 

The  lapse  of  time,  the  ruthless  hand  of 
ignorance,  and  the  devastations  of  war, 
have  laid  waste  and  destroyed  many  valu- 
able monuments  of  antiquity  on  which  the 
utmost  exertions  of  human  genius  have 
been  employed.  Even  the  Temple  of 
Solomon,  so  spacious  and  magnificent, 
and  constructed  by  so  many  celebrated 
artists,  escaped  not  the  unsparing  rav- 
ages of  barbarous  force.  Freemasonry, 
notwithstanding,  has  still  survived.     The 

ATTENTIVE  EAIi 
receives  the  sound  from  the 

INSTRUCTIVE  TONGUE, 


74      .  freemason's  monitor. 

and  the  mysteries  of  Masonry  are  safely 
lodged  in  the  repository  of 

FAITHFUL  BREASTS. 

Tools  and  implements  of  architecture  are 
selected  by  the  Fraternity  to  imprint  on 
the  memory  wise  and  serious  truths ; 
and  thus,  through  a  succession  of  ages, 
are  transmitted  unimpaired  the  excellent 
tenets  of  our  institution. 

Thus  end  the  two  sections  of  the  second  lecture ; 
which,  with  the  ceremony  used  at  opening  and  clos- 
ing the  Lodge,  comprehend  the  whole  of  the  second 
degree  of  Masonry.  This  lecture  contains  a  regular 
system  of  science,  demonstrated  on  the  clearest  prin- 
ciples, and  established  on  the  firmest  foundation. 

CHARGE 

At  Initiation  into  the  Second  Degree. 

fROTHER:  Being  advanced  to  the 
second  degree  of  Masonry,  we  con- 
gratulate you  on  your  preferment.  The 
internal,  and  not  the  external,  qualifica- 
tions of  a  man  are  what  Masonry  regards, 
As  you  increase  in  knowledge,  you  will 
improve  in  social  intercourse. 


freemason's  monitor,  75 

It  is  unnecessary  to  recapitulate  the 
duties  which,  as  a  Mason,  you  are  bound 
to  discharge,  or  enlarge  on  the  necessity 
of  a  strict  adherence  to  them,  as  your 
own  experience  must  have  established 
their  value. 

Our  laws  and  regulations  you  are  stren- 
uously to  support,  and  be  always  ready  to 
assist  in  seeing  them  duly  executed.  You 
are  not  to  palliate  or  aggravate  the  of- 
fenses of  your  brethren ;  but  in  the  deci- 
sion of  every  trespass  against  our  rules  you 
are  to  judge  with  candor,  admonish  with 
friendship,  and  reprehend  with  justice. 

The  study  of  the  liberal  arts,  that  valu- 
able branch  of  education,  which  tends  so 
effectually  to  polish  and  adorn  the  mind, 
is  earnestly  recommended  to  your  consid- 
eration, especially  the  science  of  geome- 
try, which  is  established  as  the  basis  of  our 
art.  Geometry  or  Masonry,  originally 
synonymous  terms,  being  of  a  Divine  and 
moral  nature,  is  enriched  with  the  most 
useful  knowledge:  while  it  proves  the 
wonderful  properties  of  nature,  it  demon- 


76  freemason's  monitor. 

strates  the  more  important  truths  of 
morality. 

Your  past  behavior  and  regular  deport- 
ment have  merited  the  honor  which  we 
have  now  conferred;  and  in  your  new  char- 
acter it  is  expected  that  you  will  conform 
to  the  principles  of  the  Order,  by  steadily 
persevering  in  the  practice  of  every  com- 
mendable virtue. 

Such  is  the  nature  of  your  engagements 
as  a  fellow-craft,  and  to  these  duties  you 
are  bound  by  the  most  sacred  ties. 


CHAPTER  X. 


F 


Remarks  on  the  Third  Degree. 

ROM  this  class  the  rulers  of  regular  bodies  of 
Masons,  in  the  first  three  degrees,  are  selected, 
as  it  is  only  from  those  who  are  capable  of  giving 
instruction  that  we  can  properly  expect  to  receive  it. 
The  lecture  of  this  degree,  considered  separately  from 
the  duties  and  ceremonies  appertaining  to  the  degree 
of  Presiding  or  Past  Master,  is  divided  into  three  sec- 
tions. 


freemason's  monitor.  77 

The  First  Section. 

The  ceremony  of  initiation  into  the  third  degree 
is  particularly  specified  in  this  branch  of  the  lecture, 
and  here  many  other  useful  instructions  are  given. 

Such  is  the  importance  of  this  section,  that  we  may 
safely  declare,  that  the  person  who  is  unacquainted 
with  it  is  ill  qualified  to  act  as  a  ruler  or  governor  of 
the  work. 

SCRIPTURE. 

The  following  passage  of  Scripture  is  introduced 
during  the  ceremonies : 

Remember  now  thy  Creator  in  tlie  days 
of  thy  youth,  while  the  evil  days  come  not, 
nor  the  years  draw  nigh,  when  thou  shalt 
say,  I  have  no  pleasure  in  them ;  while  the 
sun,  or  the  light,  or  the  moon,  or  the  stars, 
be  not  darkened,  nor  the  clouds  return 
after  the  rain :  in  the  day  when  the  keepers 
of  the  house  shall  tremble,  and  the  strong 
men  shall  bow  themselves,  and  the  grind- 
ers cease  because  they  are  few,  and  those' 
that  look  out  of  the  windows  be  darkened, 
and  the  doors  shall  be  shut  in  the  streets, 
when  the  sound  of  the  grinding  is  low ;  and 
he  shall  rise  up  at  the  voice  of  the  bird, 
and  all  the  daughters  of  music  shall  be 


78  freemason's  monitor. 

brought  low.  Also  when  they  shall  be 
afraid  of  that  which  is  high,  and  fears 
shall  be  in  the  way,  and  the  almond-tree 
shall  flourish,  and  the  grasshopper  shall 
be  a  burden,  and  desire  shall  fail :  because 
man  goeth  to  his  long  home,  and  the 
mourners  go  about  the  streets :  or  ever  the 
silver  cord  be  loosed,  or  the  golden  bowl 
be  broken,  or  the  pitcher  be  broken  at  the 
fountain,  or  the  wheel  broken  at  the  cis- 
tern. Then  shall  the  dust  return  to  the 
earth  as  it  was,  and  the  spirit  shall  return 
unto  Grod  who  gave  it.—  ~Eccles— gn 


(9 


our      de  -  part-ing     time  ,•       As     we      jour  -  ney 
tal    -    i  -   ty       is      here;       See  how    wide    her 


of        ce  -  les  -  tial     wing,        To     our       fun'  -  ral 
souls  with  Truth  and  Love  ;     As     dis  -  solves   our 


-6hw- 


:&- 


--&- 


u- 


-t 


  nL*  vL#  v£* 

*j+  *Y+  *T*  *j*  *Y*  *y*  *j%  *j* 

Let  us  emulate  his  amiable  and  virtuous 
conduct,  his  unfeigned  piety  to  his  God, 
and  his  inflexible  fidelity  to  his  trust.  As 
the  evergreen  which  bloomed  at  the  head 
of  his  grave  betrayed  the  place  of  War- 
ren's interment,  so  may  virtue,  by  its  ever- 
blooming  loveliness,  designate  us  as  Free 
and  Accepted  Masons. 

With  the  Trowel  spread  liberally  the 
cement  of   brotherly  love   and  affection, 


freemason's  monitor.  91 

circumscribed  by  the  Compass ;  let  us  pon- 
der well  our  words  arid  actions,  and  let  all 
the  energies  of  our  minds  and  the  affections 
of  our  souls  be  employed  in  the  attain- 
ment of  our  Supreme  Grand  Master's  ap- 
probation ;  then  when  our  dissolution  draws 
nigh,  and  the  cold  winds  of  death  come 
sighing  around  us,  and  his  chill  dew  already 
glistens  on  our  brow,  with  joy  shall  we 
obey  the  summons  of  the  Grand  Warden 
of  Heaven,  and  go  from  our  labors  on 
earth  to  everlasting  refreshment  in  the 
Paradise  of  God ;  then  by  the  benefit  of  a 
pass,  a  pure  and  blameless  life,  with  a  firm 
reliance  on  Divine  Providence,  shall  we 
gain  ready  admission  into  that  Celestial 
Lodge  above,  where  the  Supreme  Architect 
of  the  Universe  presides :  where,  seated 
at  the  right  hand  of  our  Supreme  Grand 
Master,  he  will  be  pleased  to  pronounce  us 
just  and  upright  Masons  ;  then  shall  we  be 
fitly  prepared  as  living  stones  for  that 
spiritual  building,  that  house  not  made 
with  hands,  eternal  in  the  heavens;  where 
no  discordant  voice  shall  be  heard,  but  all 


92  freemason's  monitor. 

the  soul  shall  experience  shall  be  perfect 
bliss,  and  all  it  shall  express  shall  be  per- 
fect praise,  and  love  divine  shall  ennoble 
every  heart,  and  hosannas  exalted  em- 
ploy every  tongue. 

CHARGE 

At  Initiation  into  the  Third  Degree. 

BROTHER:  Your  zeal  for  the  institu- 
tion of  Masonry,  the  progress  you 
have  made  in  the  mystery,  and  your  con- 
formity to  our  regulations,  have  pointed 
you  out  as  a  proper  object  of  our  favor  and 
esteem. 

You  are  now  bound,  by  duty,  honor,  and 
gratitude,  to  be  faithful  to  your  trust;  to 
support  the  dignity  of  your  character  on 
every  occasion;  and  to  enforce,  by  precept 
and  example,  obedience  to  the  tenets  of  the 
Order. 

In  the  character  of  a  Master  Mason  you 
are  authorized  to  correct  the  errors  and 
irregularities  of  your  uninformed  brethren, 
and  to  guard  them  against  a  breach  of 
fidelity.     To  preserve  the  reputation  of 


freemason's  monitor.  93 

the  Fraternity  unsullied  must  be  your 
constant  care ;  and  for  this  purpose  it  is 
your  province  to  recommend  to  your  in- 
feriors obedience  and  submission;  to  your 
equals,  courtesy  and  affability ;  to  your 
superiors,  kindness  and  condescension. 
Universal  benevolence  you  are  always  to 
inculcate;  and,  by  the  regularity  of  your 
own  behavior,  afford  the  best  example  for 
the  conduct  of  others  less  informed.  The 
ancient  landmarks  of  the  Order  intrusted 
to  your  care  you  are  carefully  to  preserve, 
and  never  suffer  them  to  be  infringed,  or 
countenance  a  deviation  from  the  estab- 
lished usages  and  customs  of  the  Fra- 
ternity. 

Your  virtue,  honor,  and  reputation  are 
concerned  in  supporting  with  dignity  the 
character  you  now  bear.  Let  no  motive, 
therefore,  make  you  swerve  from  your 
duty,  violate  your  vows,  or  betray  your 
trust;  but  be  true  and  faithful,  and  imi- 
tate the  example  of  that  celebrated  Artist 
whom  you  this  evening  represent.  Thus 
you  will  render  yourself  deserving  of  the 
honor  which  we  have  conferred,  and  merit 
the  confidence  that  we  have  reposed. 


94  freemason's  monitor. 


CHAPTER  XL 

FUnSTEKALS. 

The  Ceremony  observed  at  Funerals,  according  to  ancient 

custom,  with  the  Service  used  on  the  Occasion. 

NO  Mason  can  be  interred  with  the  formalities 
of  the  Order  unless  it  be,  by  his  own  special 
request,  communicated  to  the  Master  of  the  Lodge  of 
which  he  died  a  member,  foreigners  and  sojourners 
excepted ;  nor  unless  he  has  been  advanced  to  the 
third  degree  of  Masonry ;  and  from  this  restriction 
there  can  be  no  exception.  Fellow-crafts,  or  appren- 
tices, are  not  entitled  to  funeral  obsequies,  nor  to  at- 
tend the  Masonic  procession  on  such  occasions. 

The  Master  of  a  Lodge,  having  received  notice  of  a 
Master  Mason's  death,  and  of  his  request  to  be  in- 
terred with  the  ceremonies  of  the  Order,  fixes  the 
day  and  hour  for  the  funeral,  and  issues  his  com- 
mand to  summon  the  Lodge.  He  may  invite  as  many 
Lodges  as  he  thinks  proper,  and  the  members  of  those 
Lodges  may  accompany  their  officers  in  form ;  but  the 
whole  ceremony  must  be  under  the  direction  of  the 
Master  of  the  Lodge  to  which  the  deceased  belonged, 
and  he  and  his  officers  must  be  duly  honored,  and 
cheerfully  obeyed  on  the  occasion.*  But  in  case  the 
deceased  was  not  a  member  of  either  of  the  attend- 
ing Lodges,  the  procession  and  ceremony  must  be 
under  the  direction  of  the  Master  of  the  oldest  Lodge. 

All  the  brethren  who  walk  in  procession  should 
observe,  as  much  as  possible,  an  uniformity  in  their 
dress.  Decent  mourning,  with  white  stockings, 
gloves,  and  aprons,  is  most  suitable. 

*  Except  when  the  Grand  or  Deputy  Grand  Master  is  pres- 
ent, and  exercises  his  authority. 


FREEMASON  S   MONITOR. 


THE    FUNEKAL   SERVICE. 


95 


The  brethren  being  assembled  at  the  Lodge-room, 
(or  some  other  convenient  place),  the  presiding  Mas- 
ter opens  the  Lodge,  in  the  third  degree,  with  the 
usual  forms;  and  having  stated  the  purpose  of  the 
meeting,  the  service  begins. 

Master.  What  man  is  he  that  liveth  and 
shall  not  see  death  ?  Shall  he  deliver  his 
soul  from  the  hand  of  the  grave? 

Response.  Man  waiketh  in  a  vain 
shadow  ;  he  heapeth  up  riches,  and  can 
not  tell  who  shall  gather  them. 

Master.  When  he  dieth  he  shall  carry- 
nothing  away ;  his  glory  shall  not  descend 
after  him. 

Response.  Naked  he  came  into  the  world, 
and  naked  he  must  return. 

Master.  The  Lord  gave,  and  the  Lord 
hath  taken  away;  blessed  be  the  name  of 
the  Lord ! 

The  grand  honors  are  then  given,  and  certain 
forms  used,  which  can  not  be  here  explained. 

The  Master  then,  taking  the  sacred  roll  in  his 
hand,  says: 

Let  us  die  the  death  of  the  righteous, 
and  let  our  last  end  be  like  his. 

The  brethren  answer  : 


96  freemason's  monitor. 

God  is  our  Grod  forever  and  ever;  he 
will  be  our  guide  even  unto  death. 

The  Master  then  records  the  name  and  age  of  the 
deceased  upon  the  roll,  and  says  : 

Almighty  Father !  into  thy  hands  we 
commend  the  soul  of  our  loving  brother. 

The  brethren  answer  three  times  (giving  the  grand 
honors  each  time): 

The  will  of  Grod  is  accomplished!  so 
be  it. 

The  Master  then  deposits  the  roll  in  the  archives, 
and  repeats  the  following  prayer : 

Most  glorious  Grod  !  Author  of  all  good, 
and  Griver  of  all  mercy!  pour  down  thy 
blessings  upon  us,  and  strengthen  our  sol- 
emn engagements  with  the  ties  of  sincere 
affection  !  May  the  present  instance  of 
mortality  remind  us  of  our  approaching 
fate,  and  draw  our  attention  toward  thee, 
the  only  refuge  in  time  of  need!  that  when 
the  awful  moment  shall  arrive  that  we  are 
about  to  quit  this  transitory  scene,  the  en- 
livening prospect  of  thy  mercy  may  dispel 
the  gloom  of  death ;  and  after  our  depart- 
ure hence  in  peace  and  in  thy  favor,  we 
may  be  received   into   thine   everlasting 


freemason's  monitor.  97 

kingdom,  to  enjoy,  in  union  with  the  souls 
of  our  departed  friends,  the  just  reward 
of  a  pious  and  virtuous  life.     Amen. 

A  procession  is  then  formed,  which  moves  to  the 
house  of  the  deceased,  and  from  thence  to  the  place 
of  interment.  The  different  Lodges  rank  according 
to  seniority,  except  that  the  Lodge  of  which  the  de- 
ceased was  a  member  walks  nearest  the  corpse.  Each 
Lodge  forms  one  division,  and  the  following  order  is 
observed : 

ORDER   OF   PROCESSION   AT   A   FUNERAL. 

Tyler,  with  a  Drawn  Sword  ; 

Stewards,    with    White    Rods; 

Musicians  (if  they  are   Masons;    otherwise   they  follow  the 

Tyler); 

Master    Masons ; 

Senior   and   Junior   Deacons ; 

Secretary  and  Treasurer ; 

Senior    and   Junior    Wardens ; 

Past   Masters  ; 

The  Holy  Writings,  on  a  cushion   covered  with  black  cloth, 

carried  by  the  Oldest  Member  of  the  Lodge; 

The   Master; 

Clergy; 

With  the  insignia    >>T    placed  thereon, 
P 
O 
And  two    W     Swords  Crossed; 

Pall  Bearers.    jj£]     Pall  Bearers. 

The  brethren  are  not  to  desert  their  ranks,  or 
change  places,  but  keep  in  their  different  depart- 
ments. When  the  procession  arrives  at  the  church- 
yard, the  members  of  the  Lodge  form  a  circle  round 
the  grave,  and  the  clergymen  and  officers  of  the  act- 
ing Lodge,  taking  their  station  at  the  head  of  the 
grave,  and  the  mourners  at  the  foot,  the  service  is 
resumed,  and  the  following  exhortation  given : 
7 


98  freemason's  monitor. 

Here  we  view  a  striking  instance  of  the 
uncertainty  of  life,  and  the  vanity  of  all 
human  pursuits.  The  last  offices  paid  to 
the  dead  are  only  useful  as  lectures  to  the 
living;  from  them  we  are  to  derive  in- 
struction, and  consider  every  solemnity  of 
this  kind  as  a  summons  to  prepare  for  our 
approaching  dissolution. 

Notwithstanding  the  various  mementoes 
of  mortality  with  which  we  daily  meet ; 
notwithstanding  death  has  established  his 
empire  over  all  the  works  of  nature ;  yet 
through  some  unaccountable  infatuation 
we  forget  that  we  are  born  to  die :  we  go 
on  from  one  design  to  another,  add  hope  to 
hope,  and  lay  out  plans  for  the  employ- 
ment of  many  years,  till  we  are  suddenly 
alarmed  with  the  approach  of  death,  when 
we  least  expect  him,  and  at  an  hour  which 
we  probably  conclude  to  be  the  meridian 
of  our  existence. 

What  are  all  the  externals  of  majesty, 
the  pride  of  wealth,  or  charms  of  beauty, 
when  nature  has  paid  her  just  debt?  Fix 
your  eyes  on  the  last  scene,  and  view  life 
stripped,  of  her  ornaments,  and  exposed  in 
her  natural  meanness  ;  you  will  then  be 
convinced  of  the  futility  of  those  empty 
delusions.     In  the  grave,  all  fallacies  are 


freemason's  monitor.  99 

detected,  all  ranks  are  leveled,  and  all 
distinctions  are  done  away. 

While  we  drop  the  sympathetic  tear 
over  the  grave  of  our  deceased  friend,  let 
charity  incline  us  to  throw  a  vail  over  his 
foibles,  whatever  they  may  have  been,  and 
not  withhold  from  his  memory  the  praise 
that  his  virtues  may  have  claimed.  Suffer 
the  apologies  of  human  nature  to  plead  in 
his  behalf.  Perfection  on  earth  has  never 
been  attained ;  the  wisest  as  well  as  the 
best  of  men  have  erred. 

Let  the  present  example  excite  our  most 
serious  thoughts  and  strengthen  our  reso- 
lutions of  amendment.  As  life  is  uncer- 
tain, and  all  earthly  pursuits  are  vain,  let 
us  no  longer  postpone  the  important  con- 
cern of  preparing  for  eternity ;  but  em- 
brace the  happy  moment,  while  time  and 
opportunity  offer,  to  provide  against  the 
great  change,  when  all  the  pleasures  of 
this  world  shall  cease  to  delight,  and  the 
reflections  of  a  virtuous  life  yield  the  only 
comfort  and  consolation.  Thus  our  expect- 
ations will  not  be  frustrated,  nor  we  hur- 
ried unprepared  into  the  presence  of  an 
all-wise  and  powerful  Judge,  to  whom  the 
secrets  of  all  hearts  are  known. 

Let  us,  while  in  this  state  of  existence, 


100  freemason's  monitor. 

support  with  propriety  the  character  of 
our  profession,  advert  to  the  nature  of  our 
solemn  ties,  and  pursue  with  assiduity  the 
sacred  tenets  of  our  Order :  Then,  with  be- 
coming reverence,  let  us  supplicate  the 
Divine  grace  to  insure  the  favor  of  that 
eternal  Being,  whose  goodness  and  power 
know  no  bound ;  that  when  the  awful  mo- 
ment arrives,  be  it  soon  or  late,  we  may 
be  enabled  to  prosecute  our  journey,  with- 
out dread  or  apprehension,  to  that  far  dis- 
tant country  whence   no  traveler  returns. 

The  following  invocations   are   then   made   by  the 

Master: 

Master.  May  we  be  true  and  faithful ; 
and  may  we  live  and  die  in  love! 

Answer.  So  mote  it  be. 

Master.  May  we  profess  what  is  good, 
and  always  act  agreeably  to  our  profes- 
sion! 

Answer.  So  mote  it  be. 

Master.  May  the  Lord  bless  us,  and 
prosper  us;  and  may  all  our  good  inten- 
tions be  crowned  with  success ! 

Answer.  So  mote  it  be. 

Master.  Grlory  be  to  God  on  high!  on 
earth  peace!  good-will  toward  men! 

Answer.  So  mote  it  be,  now,  from  hence- 
forth, and  for  evermore. 


freemason's  monitor.  101 

The  brethren  then  move  in  procession  round  the 
place  of  interment,  and  severally  drop  a  sprig  of 
evergreen  into  the  grave,  accompanied  with  the  usual 
honors. 

The  Master  then  concludes  the  ceremony  at  the 
grave  in  the  following  words  : 

From  time  immemorial  it  has  been  the 
custom  among  the  Fraternity  of  Free  and 
Accepted  Masons,  at  the  request  of  a 
brother,  to  accompany  his  corpse  to  the 
place  of  interment,  and  there  to  deposit 
his  remains  with  the  usual  formalities. 

In  conformity  to  this  usage,  and  at  the 
special  request  of  our  deceased  brother, 
whose  memory  we  revere,  and  whose  loss 
we  now  deplore,  we  have  assembled  in  the 
character  of  Masons  to  resign  his  body  to 
the  earth  whence  it  came,  and  to  offer  up 
to  his  memory,  before  the  world,  the  last 
tribute  of  our  affection;  thereby  demon- 
strating the  sincerity  of  our  past  esteem, 
and  our  steady  attachment  to  the  princi- 
ples of  the  Order. 

The  great  Creator  having  been  pleased, 
out  of  his  mercy,  to  remove  our  brother 
from  the  cares  and  troubles  of  a  transitory 
existence,  to  a  state  of  eternal  duration, 
and  thereby  to  weaken  the  chain  by  which 
we  are  united,  man  to  man,  may  we,  who 
survive  him5   anticipate  our  approaching 


102  freemason's  monitor. 

fate,  and  be  more  strongly  cemented  in  the 
ties  of  union  and  friendship  ;  that,  during 
the  short  space  allotted  to  our  present 
existence,  we  may  wisely  and  usefully  em- 
ploy our  time,  and,  in  the  reciprocal  in- 
tercourse of  kind  and  friendly  acts,  mu- 
tually promote  the  welfare  and  happiness 
of  each  other. 

Unto  the  grave  we  resign  the  body  of 
our  deceased  friend,  there  to  remain  until 
the  general  resurrection,  in  favorable  ex- 
pectation that  his  immortal  soul  may  then 
partake  of  joys  which  have  been  prepared 
for  the  righteous  from  the  beginning  of 
the  world.  And  may  Almighty  God,  of 
his  infinite  goodness,  at  the  grand  tribunal 
of  unbiased  justice,  extend  his  mercy  to- 
ward him,  and  all  of  us,  and  crown  our 
hope  with  everlasting  bliss  in  the  expanded 
realms  of  a  boundless  eternity.  This  we 
beg,  for  the  honor  of  his  name  ;  to  whom 
be  glory,  now  and  forever.     Amen. 

Thus  the  service  ends,  and  the  procession  returns 
in  form  to  the  place  whence  it  set  out,  where  the 
necessary  duties  are  complied  with,  and  the  business 
of  Masonry  is  renewed.  The  insignia  and  ornaments 
of  the  deceased,  if  an  officer  of  a  Lodge,  are  re- 
turned to  the  Master  with  the  usual  ceremonies, 
after  which  the  charges  for  regulating  the  conduct 
of  the  brethren  are  rehearsed,  and  the  Lodge  is 
closed  in  the  third  degree. 


freemason's  monitor.  103 

CEREMONY   OF   CONSTITUTION   AND 
CONSECRATION. 

On  the  day  and  hour  appointed,  the  Grand  Master 
and  his  officers  meet  in  a  convenient  room  near  the 
Lodge  to  be  constituted,  and  open  in  the  third  degree. 
After  the  officers  in  the  new  Lodge  are  examined  by 
the  Deputy  Grand  Master,  they  send  a  Messenger  to 
the  Grand  Master,  with  the  following  message,  viz  : 

Most  Worshipful: 

The    officers   and    brethren   of    


Lodge,  who  are  now  assembled  in  their 

lodge-room  at ,  have  instructed  me 

to  inform  you,  that  the  Most  Worshipful 
Grand  Lodge  was  pleased  to  grant  them 
a  charter,  authorizing  them  to  form  and 
open  a  Lodge  of  Free  and  Accepted  Masons 
in  the  town  of -.  They  are  now  de- 
sirous that  their  Lodge  should  be  conse- 
crated, and  their  officers  installed  in  due 
and  ancient  form;  for  which  purpose  they 
are  now  met,  and  await  the  pleasure  of  the 
Most  Worshipful  Grand  Master. 

When  notice  is  given,  the  Grand  Lodge  walk  in 
procession  to  the  hall  of  the  new  Lodge.  When  the 
Grand  Master  enters,  the  grand  honors  are  given  by 


104  freemason's  monitor. 

the  new  Lodge  ;  the  officers  of  which  resign  their  seats 
to  the  grand  officers,  and  take  their  several  stations  on 
the  left. 

The  necessary  cautions  are  given,  and  all,  excepting 
Present  or  Past  Masters  of  Lodges,  are  requested  to 
retire,  until  the  Master  of  the  new  Lodge  is  inducted 
into  the  Oriental  Chair  of  Solomon.  He  is  then  bound 
to  the  faithful  performance  of  his  trust,  and  invested 
with  the  characteristics  of  the  chair. 

Upon  due  notice,  the  Grand  Marshal  re-conducts 
the  brethren  into  the  hall,  and  all  take  their  places, 
except  the  members  of  the  new  Lodge,  who  form  a 
procession  on  one  side  of  the  hall.  As  they  advance, 
the  Grand  Master  addresses  them. 

"  Brethren,  behold  your  Master." 

They  make  the  proper  salutation  as  they  pass. 
A  grand  procession  is  then  formed,  in  the  following 
order,  viz  : 

Tyler  with  a  drawn  sword ; 

Two  Stewards  with  white  rods ; 

Entered  Apprentices; 

Fel  lo  w-  Crafts; 

Master  Masons ; 

^  Stewards  : 

3  Junior  Deacons; 

£•  Senior  Deacons ; 

Secretaries ; 

Treasurers ; 

Past  Wardens  ; 

Junior  Wardens; 

Senior  Wardens; 

Past  Masters ; 

Mark  Masters; 


freemason's  monitor.  105 

Royal  Arch  Masons  ; 

Select  Masters ; 

Knights  Templars ; 

Masters  of  Lodges. 

THE    NEW    LODGE. 

Tyler  with  a  drawn  sword ; 

Stewards  with  white  rods  ; 

Entered  Apprentices  ; 

Fellow-Crafts ; 

Master  Masons  ; 

Junior  and  Senior  Deacons; 

Secretary  and  Treasurer ; 

Two  brethren  carrying  the  Flooring,*  or  Lodge  ; 

Junior  and  Senior  Wardens ; 

The  Holy  Writings,  carried   by   the   oldest  or  some  suitable 

member  not  in  office  j 

The  W.  Master ; 

Music. 

THE    GRAND    LODGE. 

Grand  Tyler  with  drawn  sword ; 
Grand  Stewards  with  white  rods ; 
A  brother  carrying  a  golden  vessel  of  corn  ;f 
Two   brethren   carrying  the  silver   vessels — one  of  wine,  the 
other  of  oil ; 
Grand  Secretaries  j 
Grand  Treasurer ; 
A  burning  taper,  borne  by  a  Past  Master ; 
A  Past  Master,  bearing  the  Holy  Writings,  Square,  and  Com- 
passes, supported  by  two  Stewards  with  white  rods  ; 
Two  burning  tapers,  borne  by  two  Past  Masters  ; 
The  Tuscan  and  Composite  Orders  ,* 
The  Doric,  Ionic,  and  Corinthian  Orders  ; 
Past  Grand  Wardens  ; 
g     Past  Deputy  Grand  Masters  ; 
3  Past  Grand  Masters  ; 

I-  The  Globes ; 

Clergy  and  Orator ; 
R.  W.  Junior  and  Senior  Grand  Wardens ; 

*  Carpet.  f  Wheat. 


106  freemason's  monitor. 

R.  W.  Deputy  Grand  Master ; 
The  Master  of  the  Oldest  Lodge,  carrying  the  Book  of  Consti- 
tutions ; 
The  M.  W.  Grand  Master ; 
The  Grand  Deacons,  on  a  line  seven  feet  apart,  on  the  right 
and  left  of  the  Grand  Master,  with  black  rods ; 
Grand  Sword  Bearer  with  a  drawn  sword  ; 
Two  Stewards  with  white  rods. 

The  Marshals  conduct  the  procession  to  the  church 
or  house  where  the  services  are  to  be  performed. 
When  the  front  of  the  procession  arrives  at  the  door, 
they  halt,  open  to  the  right  and  left,  and  face  inward ; 
while  the  Grand  Master  and  others,  in  succession,  pass 
through  and  enter  the  house.  A  platform  is  erected 
in  front  of  the  pulpit,  and  provided  with  seats  for  the 
accommodation  of  the  Grand  Officers. 

The  Holy  Bible,  Square  and  Compasses,  and  Book 
of  Constitutions  are  placed  upon  a  table  in  front  of 
the  Grand  Master.  The  flooring  is  then  spread  in 
the  center,  upon  the  platform,  covered  with  white 
satin  or  linen,  and  encompassed  by  the  three  tapers, 
and  the  vessels  of  corn,  wine,  and  oil. 

Services. 

1.  A  piece  of  Music. 

2.  Prayer. 

3.  An  Oration. 

4.  A  piece  of  Music. 

5.  The  Grand  Marshal  forms  the  officers  and 
members  of  the  new  Lodge  in  front  of  the  Grand 
Master.  The  Deputy  Grand  Master  addresses  the 
Grand  Master  as  follows : 


freemason's  monitor.  107 

Most  Woeshipful  : 

A  number  of  brethren,  duly  instructed 
in  the  mysteries  of  Masonry,  having  as- 
sembled together  at  stated  periods,  by 
virtue  of  a  dispensation  granted  them  for 
that  purpose,  do  now  desire  to  be  consti- 
tuted into  a  regular  Lodge,  agreeably  to  the 
ancient  usages  and  customs  of  the  Fra- 
ternity. 

The  dispensation  and  records  are  presented  to  the 
Grand  Master,  who  examines  the  records,  and,  if 
found  correct,  proclaims  : 

The  records  appear  to  be  correct,  and 
are  approved.  Upon  due  deliberation, 
the  Grand  Lodge  have  granted  the  breth- 
ren of  this  new  Lodge  a  charter,  establish- 
ing and  confirming  them  in  the  rights  and 
privileges  of  a  regularly  constituted  Lodge, 
which  the  Grand  Secretary  will  now  read. 

After  the  charter  is  read,  the  Grand  Master  then 
says : 

We  shall  now  proceed,  according  to 
ancient  usage,  to  constitute  these  brethren 
into  a  regular  Lodge. 


108  freemason's  monitor. 

Whereupon  the  several  officers  of  the  new  Lodge 
deliver  up  their  jewels  and  badges  to  the  Master,  who 
presents  them,  with  his  own,  to  the  Deputy  Grand 
Master,  and  he  to  the  Grand  Master. 

The  Deputy  Grand  Master  presents  the  Master  elect 
to  the  Grand  Master,  saying : 

Most  Woushipful  Grakd  Mastee: 

I  present  my  worthy  Brother  A.  B.  to 
be  installed  Master  of  this  (new)  Lodge. 
I  find  him  to  be  of  good  morals  and  great 
skill,  true  and  trusty ;  and  as  he  is  a  lover 
of  our  whole  fraternity,  wheresoever  dis- 
persed over  the  face  of  the  earth,  I  doubt 
not  that  he  will  discharge  his  duty  with 
fidelity. 

The  Grand  Master  asks  them  if  they  remain  satis- 
fied with  their  choice.     [They  how  in  token  of  assent  J] 

The  Master  elect  then  presents,  severally,  his 
Wardens  and  other  officers,  naming  them  and  their 
respective  offices.  The  Grand  Master  asks  the  breth- 
ren if  they  remain  satisfied  with  each  and  all  of  them. 
[They  bow  as  before.~\ 

The  officers  and  members  of  the  new  Lodge  form  in 
front  of  the  Grand  Master;  and  the  business  of 
Consecration  commences  with  solemn  music. 


freemason's  monitor.  109 

Ceremony  of  Consecration. 

The  Grand  Master,  attended  by  the  Grand  Officers 
and  the  Grand  Chaplain,  form  themselves  in  order 
round  the  Lodge — all  devoutly  kneeling. 

A  piece  of  solemn  music  is  performed,  while  the 
Lodge  is  uncovered. 

After  which,  the  first  clause  of  the  Consecration 
Prayer  is  rehearsed  by  the  Grand  Chaplain,  which  is 
as  follows : 

" Great  Architect  of  the  Universe! 
Maker  and  Ruler  of  all  worlds!  deign, 
from  thy  celestial  temple,  from  realms  of 
light  and  glory,  to  bless  us  in  all  the 
purposes  of  our  present  assembly.  We 
humbly  invoke  thee  to  give  us  at  this 
and  at  all  times  wisdom  in  all  our  doings, 
strength  of  mind  in  all  our  difficulties,  and 
the  beauty  of  harmony  in  all  our  commu- 
nications. Permit  us,  0  thou  Author  of 
light  and  life,  great  Source  of  love  and 
happiness,  to  erect  this  Lodge,  and  now 
solemnly  to  consecrate  it  to  the  honor  of 
thy  glory. 

"Glory  be  to  God  on  high." 

[Response  by  the  Brethren^ 


110  freemason's  monitor. 

"As  it  was  in  the  beginning,  is  now, 
and  ever  shall  be;  world  without  end. 
Amen.     So  mote  it  be. 

The  Deputy  Grand  Master  takes  the  Golden  Vessel 
of  Corn,  and  the  Senior  and  Junior  Grand  Wardens 
take  the  Silver  Vessels  of  Wine  and  Oil,  and  sprinkle 
the  elements  of  consecration  upon  the  Lodge. 

The  Grand  Chaplain  then  continues : 

"  Grant,  0  Lord,  our  Grod,  that  those 
who  are  now  about  to  be  invested  with 
the  government  of  this  Lodge,  may  be 
endued  with  wisdom  to  instruct  their 
brethren  in  all  their  duties.  May  brotherly 
love,  relief j  and  truth  always  prevail  among 
the  members  of  this  Lodge ;  and  may  this 
bond  of  union  continue  to  strengthen  the 
Lodges  throughout  the  world. 

"  Bless  all  our  brethren,  wherever  dis- 
persed ;  and  grant  speedy  relief  to  all  who 
are  either  oppressed  or  distressed. 

"We  affectionately  commend  to  thee 
ail  the  members  of  thy  whole  family. 
May  they  increase  in  grace,  in  the  knowl- 
edge of  thee,  and  in  the  love  of  each 
other. 


freemason's  monitor.  Ill 

"Finally:  may  we  finish  all  our  work 
here  below  with  thy  approbation;  and 
then  have  our  transition  from  this  earthly 
abode  to  thy  heavenly  temple  above,  there 
to  enjoy  light,  glory,  and  bliss,  ineffable 
and  eternal ! 

"  Glory  be  to  God  on  high." 

[Response  hy  the  Brethren^] 

"As  it  was  in  the  beginning,  is  now, 
and  ever  shall  be;  world  without  end. 
Amen. 

8.  A  piece  of  solemn  music  is  performed  while  the 
Carpet  is  covered. 

9.  The  Grand  Chaplain  then  dedicates  the  Lodge 
in  the  following  terms  : 

"To  the  memory  of  the  HOLY  STS. 
JOHN  we  dedicate  this  Lodge.  May 
every  brother  revere  their  character,  and 
imitate  their  virtues. 

"  Glory  be  to  God  on  high." 

\_Response.~] 

"As  it  was  in  the  beginning,  is  now, 
and  ever  shall  be ;  world  without  end. 
Amen.     So  mote  it  be." 


112  freemason's  monitor. 

10.  A  piece  of  music  is  performed,  while  the 
brethren  of  the  new  Lodge  advance  in  procession  to 
salute  the  Grand  Lodge,  with  their  hands  crossed 
upon  their  breasts  as  they  pass.  They  then  take 
their  places  as  they  were. 

11.  The  Grand  Master  then  rises  and  constitutes 
the  new  Lodge  in  the  form  following : 

"  In  the  name  of  the  Most  Worshipful 
Grand  Lodge,  I  now  constitute  and  form 
you,  my  beloved  brethren,  into  a  regular 
Lodge  of  Free  and  Accepted  Masons. 
From  henceforth  I  empower  you  to  meet 
as  a  regular  Lodge,  constituted  in  con- 
formity to  the  rights  of  our  Order,  and  the 
charges  of  our  ancient  and  honorable 
Fraternity;  and  may  the  Supreme  Ar- 
chitect of  the  Universe  prosper,  direct,  and 
counsel  you  in  all  your  doings.     Amen. 

Response:  "So  mote  it  be." 


freemason's  monitor.  113 

CHAPTER  XII. 

CEREMONY  OF  INSTALLATION. 

THE  Grand  Master*  asks  his  deputy,  "Whether 
he  has  examined  the  Master  nominated  in  the 
warrant,  and  finds  him  well  skilled  in  the  noble  sci- 
ence and  the  royal  art."  The  deputy,  answering  in 
the  affirmative, t  by  the  Grand  Master's  order,  takes 
the  candidate  from  among  his  fellows,  and  presents 
him  at  the  pedestal,  saying, 

Most  Worshipful  Grand  Master, 

I  present  my  worthy  brother,  A.  B.,  to 
be  installed  Master  of  this  (new)  Lodge.  I 
find  him  to  be  of  good  morals,  and  of  great 
skill,  true  and  trusty ;  and  as  he  is  a  lover 
of  the  whole  Fraternity,  wheresoever  dis- 
persed over  the  face  of  the  earth,  I  doubt 
not  that  he  will  discharge  his  duty  with 
fidelity. 

The  Grand  Master  then  addresses  him : 

Brother, 

Previous  to  your  investiture,  it  is  neces- 
sary that  you  should  signify  your  assent 

*  In  this,  and  other  similar  instances,  where  the  Grand 
Master  is  specified  in  acting,  may  be  understood  any  Master 
who  performs  the  ceremony. 

+  A  private  examination  is  understood  to  precede  the  in- 
stallation of  every  officer* 

8 


114  freemason's  monitor. 

to  those  ancient  charges  and  regulations 
which  point  out  the  duty  of  a  Master  of  a 
Lodge. 

The  Grand  Master  then  reads,  or  orders  to  be  read 
a  summary  of  the  ancient  charges  to  the  Master  elect, 
as  follows,  viz. : 

I.  You  agree  to  be  a  good  man  and  true, 
and  strictly  to  obey  the  moral  law. 

II.  You  agree  to  be  a  peaceable  subject, 
and  cheerfully  to  conform  to  the  laws  of 
the  country  in  which  you  reside. 

III.  You  promise  not  to  be  concerned 
in  plots  and  conspiracies  against  govern- 
ment, but  patiently  to  submit  to  the  de- 
cisions of  the  supreme  legislature. 

IV.  You  agree  to  pay  a  proper  respect 
to  the  civil  magistrate,  to  work  diligently, 
live  creditably,  and  act  honorably  by  all 
men. 

V.  You  agree  to  hold  in  veneration  the 
original  rulers  and  patrons  of  the  Order  of 
Masonry,  and  their  regular  successors,  su- 
preme and  subordinate,  according  to  their 
stations  ;  and  to  submit  to  the  awards  and 
resolutions  of  your  brethren  when  con- 
vened, in  every  case  consistent  with  the 
constitutions  of  the  Order. 


freemason's  monitor.  115 

VI.  You  agree  to  avoid  private  piques 
and  quarrels,  and  to  guard  against  intem- 
perance and  excess. 

"VII.  You  agree  to  be  cautious  in  car- 
riage and  behavior,  courteous  to  your 
brethren,  and  faithful  to  your  Lodge. 

VIII.  You  promise  to  respect  genuine 
brethren,  and  to  discountenance  impostors, 
and  all  dissenters  from  the  original  plan 
of  Masonry. 

IX.  You  agree  to  promote  the  general 
good  of  society,  to  cultivate  the  social  vir- 
tues, and  to  propagate  the  knowledge  of 
the  art. 

X.  You  promise  to  pay  homage  to  the 
Grand  Master  for  the  time  being,  and  to 
his  officers  when  duly  installed  ;  and  strict- 
ly to  conform  to  every  edict  of  the  Grand 
Lodge,  or  general  assembly  of  Masons, 
that  is  not  subversive  of  the  principles  and 
ground-work  of  Masonry. 

XL  You  admit  that  it  is  not  in  the 
power  of  any  man,  or  body  of  men,  to 
make  innovations  in  the  body  of  Ma- 
sonry. 

XII.  You  promise  a  regular  attendance 
on  the  committees  and  communications  of 
the  Grand  Lodge,  on  receiving  proper  no- 


116  freemason's  monitor. 

tice,  and  to  pay  attention  to  all  the  duties 
of  Masonry  on  convenient  occasions. 

XIII.  You  admit  that  no  new  Lodge 
shall  be  formed  without  permission  of  the 
Grand  Lodge  ;  and  that  no  countenance  be 
given  to  any  irregular  Lodge,  or  to  any 
person  clandestinely  initiated  therein,  be- 
ing contrary  to  the  ancient  charges  of  the 
Order. 

XIV.  You  admit  that  no  person  can  be 
regularly  made  a  Mason  in,  or  admitted  a 
member  of,  any  regular  Lodge,  without 
previous  notice,  and  due  inquiry  into  his 
character. 

XV.  You  agree  that  no  visitors  shall  be 
received  into  your  Lodge  without  due  ex- 
amination, and  producing  proper  vouchers 
of  their  having  been  initiated  in  a  regular 
Lodge. 

These  are  the  regulations  of  Free  and  Accepted 
Masons. 

The  Grand  Master  then  addresses  the  Master  elect 
in  the  following  manner : 

Do  you  submit  to  these  charges,  and 
promise  to  support  these  regulations,  as 
Masters  have  done  in  all  ages  before  you  ? 

The  new  Master  having  signified  his  cordial  sub- 


freemason's   monitor.  117 

mission  as  before,  the  Grand  Master  thus   addresses 
him  : 

Brother  A.  B.,  in  consequence  of  your 
cheerful  conformity  to  the  charges  and  reg- 
ulations of  the  Order,  you  are  now  to  be 
installed  Master  of  this  (new)  Lodge,  in  full 
confidence  of  your  care,  skill,  and  capacity 
to  govern  the  same. 

The  new  Master  is  then  regularly  invested  with  the 
insignia  of  his  office,  and  the  furniture  and  imple- 
ments of  his  Lodge. 

The  various  implements  of  the  profession  are  em- 
blematical of  our  conduct  in  life,  and  upon  this  occa- 
sion carefully  enumerated. 

The  Holy  Writings,  that  great  light  in 
Masonry,  will  guide  you  to  all  truth ;  it 
will  direct  your  paths  to  the  temple  of 
happiness,  and  point  out  to  you  the  whole 
duty  of  man. 

The  Square  teaches  to  regulate  our  ac- 
tions by  rule  and  line,  and  to  harmonize 
our  conduct  by  the  principles  of  morality 
and  virtue. 

The  Compass  teaches  to  limit  our  desires 
in  every  station,  that,  rising  to  eminence 
by  merit,  we  may  live  respected  and  die 
regretted. 

The  Rule  directs  that  we  should  punctu- 


118  freemason's  monitor. 

ally  observe  our  duty,  press  forward  in 
the  path  of  virtue,  and,  neither  inclining 
to  the  right  nor  to  the  left,  in  all  our  ac- 
tions have  eternity  in  view. 

The  Line  teaches  the  criterion  of  moral 
rectitude,  to  avoid  dissimulation  in  conver- 
sation and  action,  and  to  direct  our  steps 
to  the  path  which  leads  to  immortality. 

The  Book  of  Constitutions  you  are  to 
search  at  all  times.  Cause  it  to  be  read 
in  your  Lodge,  that  none  may  pretend  ig- 
norance of  the  excellent  precepts  it  enjoins. 

Lastly,  you  receive  in  charge  the  By- 
laws of  your  Lodge,  which  you  are  to  see 
carefully  and  punctually  executed. 

The  jewels  of  the  officers  of  the  (new)  Lodge  being 
then  returned  to  the  Master,  he  delivers  them,  respect- 
ively, to  the  several  officers  of  the  Grand  Lodge,  ac- 
cording to  their  rank. 

The  subordinate  officers  of  the  (new)  Lodge  are  then 
invested  with  their  jewels  by  the  grand  officers  of 
corresponding  rank  ;  and  are  by  them,  severally  in 
turn,  conducted  to  the  Grand  Master,  who  delivers 
each  of  them  a  short  charge,  as  follows,  viz. : 

THE  SENIOR  WARDEN. 

Brother  C.  D.,  you  are  appointed  Senior 
Warden  of  this  new  Lodge,  and  are  now 
invested  with  the  ensign  of  your  office. 


freemason's  monitor.  119 

The  Level  demonstrates  that  we  are  de- 
scended from  the  same  stock,  partake  of 
the  same  nature,  and  share  the  same  hope  ; 
and,  though  distinctions  among  men  are 
necessary  to  preserve  subordination,  yet 
no  eminence  of  station  should  make  us  for- 
get that  we  are  brethren ;  for  he  who  is 
placed  on  the  lowest  spoke  of  fortune's 
wheel  may  be  entitled  to  our  regard ;  be- 
cause, a  time  will  come,  and  the  wisest 
knows  not  how  soon,  when  all  distinctions, 
but  that  of  goodness,  shall  cease ;  and 
death,  the  grand  leveler  of  human  great- 
ness, reduce  us  to  the  same  state. 

Your  regular  attendance  on  our  stated 
meetings  is  essentially  necessary:  in  the 
absence  of  the  Master  you  are  to  govern 
this  Lodge ;  in  his  presence,  you  are  to 
assist  him  in  the  government  of  it.  I 
firmly  rely  on  your  knowledge  of  Masonry, 
and  attachment  to  the  Lodge,  for  the  faith- 
ful discharge  of  the  duties  of  this  import- 
ant trust.     Look  well  to  the  West ! 

THE  JUNIOR  WARDEN. 

Brother  E.  F.,  you  are  appointed  Junior 
Warden  of  this  (new)  Lodge,  and  are  now 
invested  with  the  badge  of  your  office. 


120  freemason's  monitor. 

The  Plumb  admonishes  us  to  walk  up- 
rightly in  our  several  stations,  to  hold  the 
scale  of  justice  in  equal  poise,  to  observe 
the  just  medium  between  intemperance 
and  pleasure,  and  to  make  our  passions 
and  prejudices  coincide  with  the  line  of 
our  duty. 

To  you,  with  such  assistance  as  may  be 
necessary,  is  intrusted  the  examination  of 
visitors,  and  the  reception  of  candidates. 
To  you  is  also  committed  the  superintend- 
ence of  the  Craft  during  the  hours  of  re- 
freshment; it  is,  therefore,  indispensably 
necessary,  that  you  should  not  only  be 
temperate  and  discreet,  in  the  indulgence 
of  your  own  inclinations,  but  carefully  ob- 
serve that  none  of  the  Craft  be  suffered  to 
convert  the  purposes  of  refreshment  into 
intemperance  and  excess. 

Your  regular  and  punctual  attendance 
is  particularly  requested ;  and  I  have  no 
doubt  that  you  will  faithfully  execute  the 
duty  which  you  owe  to  your  present  ap- 
pointment.    Look  well  to  the  South  ! 

THE   TREASURER. 

Brother  Gr.  H.,  you  are  appointed  Treas- 
urer of  this  (new)  Lodge.     It  is  your  duty 


freemason's   monitor.  121 

to  receive  all  moneys  from  the  hands  of 
the  Secretary,  keep  just  and  regular  ac- 
counts of  the  same,  and  pay  them  out  at 
the  Worshipful  Master's  will  and  pleasure, 
with  the  consent  of  the  Lodge.  I  trust 
your  regard  for  the  Fraternity  will  prompt 
you  to  the  faithful  discharge  of  the  duties 
of  your  office. 

THE   SECRETARY. 

Brother  I.  K.,  you  are  appointed  Sec- 
retary of  this  (new)  Lodge.  It  is  your  duty 
to  observe  the  Worshipful  Master's  will 
and  pleasure,  to  record  the  proceedings  of 
the  Lodge,  to  receive  all  moneys,  and  pay 
them  into  the  hands  of  the  Treasurer. 

Your  good  inclination  to  Masonry  and 
this  Lodge,  I  hope,  will  induce  you  to  dis- 
charge your  office  with  fidelity,  and  by  so 
doing  you  will  merit  the  esteem  and  ap- 
plause of  your  brethren. 

THE  SENIOR  AND  JUNIOR  DEACONS. 

Brothers  L.  M.  and  N".  0.,  you  are  ap- 
pointed Deacons  of  this  (new)  Lodge.  It  is 
your  province  to  attend  on  the  Master  and 
Wardens,  and  to  act  as  their  proxies  in 
the  active  duties  of  the  Lodge ;  such  as  in 


122  freemason's  monitor. 

the  reception  of  candidates  into  the  differ- 
ent degrees  of  Masonry ;  the  introduction 
and  accommodation  of  visitors,  and  in  the 
immediate  practice -of  our  rites.  Those 
columns,  as  badges  of  your  office,  I  trust 
to  your  care,  not  doubting  your  vigilance 
and  attention. 

THE   STEWARDS. 

Brothers  P.  Q.  and  R.  S.,  you  are  ap- 
pointed Stewards  of  this  (new)  Lodge. 
The  duties  of  your  office  are,  to  assist  in 
the  collection  of  dues  and  subscriptions, 
to  keep  an  account  of  the  Lodge  expenses, 
to  see  that  the  tables  are  properly  fur- 
nished at  refreshment,  and  that  every 
brother  is  suitably  provided  for ;  and  gen- 
erally to  assist  the  Deacons  and  other  offi- 
cers in  performing  their  respective  duties. 
Your  regular  and  early  attendance  will 
afford  the  best  proof  of  your  zeal  and  at- 
tachment to  the  Lodge. 

THE   TYLER. 

Brother  T.  XL,  you  are  elected  Tyler  of 
this  Lodge,  and  I  invest  you  with  the  im- 
plement of  your  office.  As  the  sword  is 
placed  in  the  hands  of  the  Tyler,  to  en- 


freemason's  monitor.  1^3 

able  him  effectually  to  guard  against  the 
approach  of  cowans  and  eavesdroppers, 
and  suffer  none  to  pass  but  such  as  are 
duly  qualified ;  so  it  should  morally  serve 
as  a  constant  admonition  to  us,  to  set  a 
guard  at  the  entrance  of  our  thoughts,  to 
place  a  watch  at  the  door  of  our  lips,  and 
to  post  a  sentinel  over  our  actions :  there- 
by excluding  every  unqualified  and  un- 
worthy thought,  word,  and  deed ;  and  pre- 
serving consciences  void  of  offense  toward 
God  and  toward  m&n.  Your  early  and 
punctual  attendance  will  afford  the  best 
proof  of  your  zeal  for  the  institution. 

The  Grand  Master  then  addresses  the  officers  and 
members  of  the  (new)  Lodge  as  follows  : 

CHARGE 

Upon  the  Installation  of  the  Officers  of  a  Lodge. 

WORSHIPFUL  MASTER:  The 
Grand  Lodge  having  committed 
to  your  care  the  superintendence  and  gov- 
ernment of  the  brethren  who  are  to  com- 
pose this  (new)  Lodge,  you  can  not  be  in- 
sensible of  the  obligations  which  devolve 
on  you,  as  their  head  ;  nor  of  your  respons- 
ibility for  the  faithful  discharge  of  the  im- 


124  freemason's  monitor. 

portant  duties  annexed  to  your  appoint- 
ment. 

The  honor,  reputation,  and  usefulness 
of  your  Lodge  will  materially  depend  on 
the  skill  and  assiduity  with  which  you 
manage  its  concerns ;  while  the  happiness 
of  its  members  will  be  generally  promoted, 
in  proportion  to  the  zeal  and  ability  with 
which  you  propagate  the  genuine  princi- 
ples of  our  institution. 

For  a  pattern  of  imitation,  consider  the 
great  luminary  of  nature,  which,  rising  in 
the  Hast,  regularly  diffuses  light  and  luster 
to  all  within  its  circle.  In  like  manner  it 
is  your  province  to  spread  and  communi- 
cate light  and  instruction  to  the  brethren 
of  your  Lodge.  Forcibly  impress  upou 
them  the  dignity  and  high  importance  of 
Masonry;  and  seriously  admonish  them 
never  to  disgrace  it.  Charge  them  to  prac- 
tice, out  of  the  Lodge,  those  duties  which 
they  have  been  taught  in  it ;  and  by  ami- 
able, discreet,  and  virtuous  conduct,  to  con- 
vince mankind  of  the  goodness  of  the  in- 
stitution ;  so  that,  when  any  one  is  said  to 
be  a  member  of  it,  the  world  may  know 
that  he  is  one  to  whom  the  burdened 
heart  may  pour  out  its  sorrows ;  to  whom 


freemason's  monitor.  125 

distress  may  prefer  its  suit ;  whose  hand  is 
guided  by  justice,  and  his  heart  expanded 
by  benevolence.  In  short,  by  a  diligent 
observance  of  the  by-laws  of  your  Lodge, 
the  constitutions  of  Masonry,  and  above  all 
the  Holy  Scriptures,  which  are  given  as  a 
rule  and  guide  to  your  faith,  you  will  be 
enabled  to  acquit  yourself  with  honor  and 
reputation,  and  lay  up  a  crown  of  rejoicing, 
which  shall  continue  when  time  shall  be 
no  more. 

Bkothee  Senior  and  Junior  Wardens  : 

You  are  too  well  acquainted  with  the 
principles  of  Masonry  to  warrant  any  ap- 
prehension that  you  will  be  found  wanting 
in  the  discharge  of  your  respective  duties. 
Suffice  it  to  mention,  that  what  you  have 
seen  praiseworthy  in  others  you  should 
carefully  imitate ;  and  what  in  them  may 
have  appeared  defective  you  should  in 
yourselves  amend.  You  should  be  exam- 
ples of  good  order  and  regularity ;  for  it  is 
only  by  a  due  regard  to  the  laws  in  your 
own  conduct,  that  you  can  expect  obedience 
to  them  from  others.  You  are  assiduously 
to  assist  the  Master  in  the  discharge  of 
his   trust,   diffusing  light   and   imparting 


126  freemason's  monitor. 

knowledge  to  all  whom  he  shall  place  un- 
der your  care.  In  the  absence  of  the  Mas- 
ter, you  will  succeed  to  higher  duties  ;  your 
acquirements  must  therefore  be  such,  as 
that  the  Craft  may  never  suffer  for  want 
of  proper  instruction.  From  the  spirit 
which  you  have  hitherto  evinced,  I  enter- 
tain no  doubt  that  your  future  conduct  will 
be  such  as  to  merit  the  applause  of  your 
brethren,  and  the  testimony  of  a  good  con- 
science. 

Beetheen  of Lodge  : 

Such  is  the  nature  of  our  constitution, 
that  as  some  must  of  necessity  rule  and 
teach,  so  others  must  of  course  learn  to 
submit  and  obey.  Humility  in  both  is  an 
essential  duty.  The  officers  who  are  ap- 
pointed to  govern  your  Lodge  are  suffi- 
ciently conversant  with  the  rules  of  pro- 
priety and  the  laws  of  the  institution,  to 
avoid  exceeding  the  powers  with  which 
they  are  intrusted ;  and  you  are  of  too 
generous  dispositions  to  envy  their  pre- 
ferment. I  therefore  trust  that  you  will 
have  but  one  aim :  to  please  each  other,  and 
unite  in  the  grand  design  of  being  happy 
and  communicating  happiness. 


FREEMASON'S   MONITOR.  127 

Finally,  my  brethren,  as  this  association 
has  been  formed  and  perfected  in  so  much 
unanimity  and  concord,  in  which  we  great- 
ly rejoice,  so  may  it  long  continue.  May 
you  long  enjoy  every  satisfaction  and  de- 
light which  disinterested  friendship  can 
afford.  May  kindness  and  brotherly  affec- 
tion distinguish  your  conduct  as  men  and 
as  Masons.  Within  your  peaceful  walls, 
may  your  children's  children  celebrate  with 
joy  and  gratitude  the  transactions  of  this 
auspicious  solemnity.  And  may  the  tenets 
of  our  profession  be  transmitted  through 
your  Lodge,  pure  and  unimpaired,  from 
generation  to  generation. 

The  Grand  Marshal  then  proclaims  the  new 
Lodge  in  the  following  manner,  viz. : 

In  the  name  of  the  Most  Worshipful 
Grand  Lodge  of  the  State  of ,  I  pro- 
claim this  new  Lodge,  by  the  name  of 
Lodge,  duly  constituted. 

This  proclamation  is  made  thrice,  and  each  time 
followed  with  a  flourish  of  drums  or  trumpets. 

The  Grand  Chaplain  then  makes  the  concluding 
prayer,  which  ends  the  public  ceremonies. 

The  grand  procession  is  then  formed  in  the  same 
order  as  before,  and  returns  to  the  hall. 


128  freemason's  monitor. 


CHAPTER  XIII. 

CEREMONY   OP   LAYING  THE   FOUNDATION 
STONES   OF  PUBLIC   STRUCTURES 

THIS  ceremony  is  conducted  by  the  M.  W.  Grand 
Master  and  his  officers,  assisted  by  such  officers 
and  members  of  subordinate  Lodges  as  can  conveniently 
attend.  The  chief  magistrate,  and  other  civil  officers 
of  the  place  where  the  building  is  to  be  erected,  also 
generally  attend  on  the  occasion. 

At  the  time  appointed,  the  Grand  Lodge  is  con- 
vened in  some  suitable  place.  A  band  of  martial 
music  is  provided,  and  the  brethren  appear  in  the 
insignia  of  the  Order. 

The  Lodge  is  then  opened  by  the  Grand  Master, 
and  the  rules  for  regulating  the  procession  are  read 
by  the  Grand  Secretary.  The  Lodge  is  then  adjourned  ; 
after  which  the  procession  sets  out  in  due  form,  in 
the  following  order : 

Procession  at  Laying  Foundation  Stones. 

Two  Tylers  with  drawn  Swords  ; 
Tyler  of  the  oldest  Lodge  with  a  drawn  Sword ; 
Two  Stewards  of  the  oldest  Lodge ; 
Entered  Apprentices; 
Fellow- Crafts ; 
Master  Masons ; 
Past  Secretaries ; 
g  Past  Treasurers ; 

3         Past  Junior  Wardens  ; 
£.        Past  Senior  Wardens ; 
Mark  Masters ; 


freemason's  monitor.  129 

Past  Masters ; 
Royal  Arch  Masons  ,• 

Select  Masters ; 
Knights  Templars ; 
Masters ; 
Music ; 
Grand  Tyler  with  a  drawn  Sword ; 
Grand  Stewards  with  white  Rods ; 
A  Past  Master  with  a  Golden  Vessel  containing  Corn  ; 
Principal  Architect  with  Square,  Level  and  Plumb  ; 
Two  Past   Masters  with  Silver  Vessels,  one  containing  Wine, 
and  the  other  Oil ; 
Grand  Secretary  and  Treasurer ; 
The  Five  Orders ; 
One  large  light,  borne  by  a  Past  Master; 
The  Holy  Bible,  Square  and  Compasses,  borne  by  a  Master  of 
a  Lodge,  supported  by  two  Stewards  on 
the  right  and  left  ; 
Two  large  Lights,  borne  by  two  Past  Masters ; 
Grand  Chaplain ; 
Clergy  and  Orator ; 
Grand  Wardens; 
Deputy  Grand  Master; 
The  Master  of  the  oldest  Lodge,  carrying  the  Book  of  Consti- 
tutions on  a  velvet  cushion  ; 
Grand  Deacons  with  black  Rods,  on  a  line  seven  feet  apart  ; 
Grand  Master; 
Two  Stewards  with  white  Rods ; 
Grand  Sword-bearer  with  a  drawn  Sword. 


A  Triumphal  Arch  is  usually  erected  at  the  place 
where  the  ceremony  is  to  be  performed.  The  pro- 
cession passes  through  the  arch  ;  and  the  brethren 
repairing  to  their  stands,  the  Grand  Master  and  his 
officers  take  their  places  on  a  temporary  platform, 
covered  with  carpet.  The  Grand  Master  commands 
silence.     An  Ode  on  Masonry  is  sung ;  after  which, 

the  necessary  preparations  are  made  for  laying  the 
9 


1  * 

130  FREEMASON  S    MONITOR. 


stone,  on  which  is  engraved  the  year  of  Masonry,  the 
name  and  title  of  the  Grand  Master,  etc.,  etc. 

The  stone  is  raised  up,  by  means  of  an  engine 
erected  for  that  purpose,  and  the  Grand  Chaplain  or 
Orator  repeats  a  short  prayer. 

The  Grand  Treasurer,  then,  by  the  Grand  Master's 
command,  places  under  the  stone  various  sorts  of  coin 
and  medals  of  the  present  age.  Solemn  music  i? 
introduced,  and  the  stone  is  let  down  into  its  place. 

The  principal  architect  then  presents  the  working 
tools  to  the  Grand  Master,  who  applies  the  plumb, 
square,  and  level  to  the  stone,  in  their  proper  posi- 
tions, and  pronounces  it  to  be  well  formed,  true, 
and  trusty. 

The  golden  and  silver  vessels  are  next  brought  to 
the  table  and  delivered ;  the  former  to  the  Deputy 
Grand  Master,  and  the  latter  to  the  Grand  Wardens, 
who  successively  present  them  to  the  Grand  Master  : 
and  he,  according  to  ancient  ceremony,  pours  the 
corn,  the  wine,  and  the  oil  which  they  contain  on 
the  stone,  saying : 

"  May  the  all-bounteous  Author  of  Na- 
ture bless  the  inhabitants  of  this  place 
with  all  the  necessaries,  conveniences,  and 
comforts  of  this  life ;  assist  in  the  erection 
and  completion  of  this  building;  protect 
the  workmen  against  every  accident,  and 


freemason's  monitor.  131 

long  preserve  this  structure  from  decay; 
and  grant  to  us  all  a  supply  of  the  coeist 
of  nourishment^  the  wine  of  refreshment, 
and  the  oil  of  joy  ! 

"Amen.     So  mote  it  be." 

He  then  strikes  the  stone  thrice  with  the  mallet ; 
and  the  public  grand  honors  are  given*  The  Grand 
Master  then  delivers  over  to  the  Architect  the  various 
implements  of  architecture,  intrusting  him  with  the 
superintendence  and  direction  of  the  work  ;  after 
which  he  reascends  the  platform,  and  an  oration 
suitable  to  the  occasion  is  delivered. 

A  voluntary  collection  is  made  for  the  needy  work- 
men ;  and  the  sum  collected  is  placed  upon  the  stone 
by  the  Grand  Treasurer. 

A  suitable  song  in  honor  of  Masonry  concludes 
the  ceremony  ;  after  which,  the  procession  returns  to 
the  place  whence  it  set  out,  and  the  Lodge  is  closed 
in  due  form. 

Section  Fourth, 

The  fourth  section  contains  the  ceremony  observed 
at  the  Dedication  of  Freemasons'  Halls. 

On  the  day  appointed,  the  Grand  Master  and  his 
officers,  accompanied  by  the  members  of  the  Grand 
Lodge,   meet  in  a  convenient  room   near  the  A  place 

*  Grand  Honors,  see  p.  143. 


132  freemason's  monitor. 

where  the  ceremony  is  to  be  performed,  and  open  in 
due  and  ample  form,  in  the  third  degree  of  Masonry. 
The  Master  of  the  Lodge  to  which  the  Hall  to 
be  dedicated  belongs,  being  present,  addresses  the 
Grand  Master  as  follows  : 

Most  Wokshipful: 

The   brethren  of Lodge,   being 

animated  with  a  desire  of  promoting  the 
honor  and  interest  of  the  Craft,  have,  at 
great  pains  and  expense,  erected  a  Ma- 
sonic Hall  for  their  convenience  and  ac- 
commodation. Thy  are  now  desirous  that 
the  same  should  be  examined  by  the  M. 
W.  Gkand  Lodge  ;  and  if  it  meet  their 
approbation,  that  it  should  be  solemnly 
dedicated  to  Masonic  purposes,  agreeably 
to  ancient  form. 

The  Grand  Master  then  directs  the  Grand  Marshal 
to  form  the  procession,  when  they  move  forward  to 
the  Hall  to  be  dedicated.  On  entering,  the  music 
will  continue,  while  the  procession  marches  three 
times  round  the  hall. 

The  carpet  or  flooring  is  then  placed  in  the  center ; 
and  the  Grand  Master  having  taken  the  chair,  under 
a  canopy  of  state,  the  Grand  Officers,  and  the  Masters 
and  Wardens   of   the    Lodges   repair   to  the  places 


freemason's  monitor.  133 

previously  prepared  for  their  reception.  The  three 
Lights,  and  the  Gold  and  Silver  Pitchers,  with  the 
corn,  wine,  and  oil,  are  placed  round  the  Lodge,  at  the 
head  of  which  stands  the  Altar,  with  the  Holy  Bible 
open,  and  the  Square  and  Compasses  laid  thereon, 
with  the  Charter,  Book  of  Constitutions,  and  By-laws. 
An  Anthem  is  sung,  and  an  Exordium  on  Masonry 
given ;  after  which  the  Architect  addresses  the  Grand 
Master  as  follows : 

Most  Worshipful: 

Having  been  intrusted  with  the  super- 
intendence and  management  of  the  work- 
men employed  in  the  erection  of  this 
edifice;  and  having,  according  to  the  best 
of  my  ability,  accomplished  the  task  as- 
signed me,  I  now  return  my  thanks  for  the 
honor  of  this  appointment,  and  beg  leave 
to  surrender  up  the  implements  which 
were  committed  to  my  care  when  the 
foundation  of  this  fabric  was  laid ;  humbly 
hoping  that  the  exertions  which  have  been 
made  on  this  occasion,  will  be  crowned 
with  your  approbation,  and  that  of  the 
Most  Worshipful  Grand  Lodge. 

To  which  the  Grand  Master  makes  the  following 
reply : 


134  freemason's  monitor. 

Brothek  Architect  : 

The  skill  and  fidelity  displayed  in  the 
execution  of  the  trust  reposed  in  you,  at 
the  commencement  of  this  undertaking, 
have  secured  the  approbation  of  the  Grand 
Lodge ;  and  they  sincerely  pray  that  this 
edifice  may  continue  a  lasting  monument 
of  the  taste,  spirit,  and  liberality  of  its 
founders. 

An  Ode  in  honor  of  Masonry  is  sung,  accompanied 
with  instrumental  music. 

The  Deputy  Grand  Master  then  rises  and  says : 

Most  Worshipful: 

The  hall  in  which  we  are  now  as- 
sembled, and  the  plan  upon  which  it  has 
been  constructed,  having  met  with  your 
approbation,  it  is  the  desire  of  the  Fra- 
ternity that  it  should  now  be  dedicated 
according  to  ancient  form  and  usage. 

Whereupon  a  procession  is  formed  in  the  following 

order,  viz  : 

Grand  Sword-bearer; 

A  Past  Master  with  a  Light ; 

A  Past  Master  with  a  Bible,  Square,  and  Compasses,  on  a 

velvet  cushion ; 

Two  Past  Masters,  each  with  a  Light; 


freemason's  monitor.  135 

Grand  Secretary  and  Treasurer  with  Emblems; 

Grand  Junior  Warden  with  Pitcher  of  Corn  ; 

Grand  Senior  Warden  with  Pitcher  of  Wine  ; 

Deputy  Grand  Master  with  Pitcher  of  Oil ; 

Grand  Master; 

Two  Stewards  with  Rods  ; 

All  the  other  brethren  keep  their  places,  and  assist 
in  performing  an  Ode,  which  continues  during  the 
procession,  excepting  only  at  the  intervals  of  dedi- 
cation. The  Carpet  being  uncovered,  the  first  time 
passing  round  it,  the  Grand  Junior  Warden  presents 
the  Pitcher  of  Corn  to  the  Grand  Master,  who  pours 
it  out  upon  the  Lodge,  at  the  same  time  pronouncing : 

"In  the  name  of  the  Great  Jehoyah, 
to  whom  be  all  honor  and  glory,  I  do 
solemnly  dedicate  this  Hall  to  MA- 
SONRY." 

[The  grand  honors  are  given."] 

The  second  time  passing  round  the  Lodge,  the 
Grand  Senior  Warden  presents  the  Pitcher  of  Wine 
to  the  Grand  Master,  who  sprinkles  it  upon  the  Carpet, 
at  the  same  time  saying : 

"In  the  name  of  the  Holy  Saints 
John,  I  do  solemnly  dedicate  this  Hall 
to  VIRTUE." 

[The  grand  honors  are  twice  given."] 


136  freemason's  monitor. 

The  third  time  passing  round  the  Lodge,  the 
Deputy  Grand  Master  presents  the  Grand  Master  with 
the  Pitcher  of  Oil,  who  pours  it  upon  the  Carpet, 
saying : 

"In  the  name  of  the  whole  Fraternity, 
I  do  solemnly  dedicate  this  Hall  to  UNI- 
VERSAL BENEVOLENCE." 

\_The  grand  honors  are  thrice  given.] 

A  solemn  Invocation  is  made  to  the  Throne  of 
Grace  by  the  Grand  Chaplain,  and  an  Anthem  sung ; 
after  which  the  Carpet  is  covered,  and  the  Grand 
Master  retires  to  his  Chair. 

An  Oration  is  then  delivered,  and  the  ceremonies 
conclude  with  music.  The  Grand  Lodge  is  then 
closed  in  due  or  ample  form 


freemason's  monitor.  137 

CHAPTER  XIV. 

FORMS  MOST  COMMONLY  REQUIRED. 

FORM    OF   A   PETITION   FOR   A   CHARTER   OR   WARRANT 
TO  ESTABLISH    A   NEW   LODGE. 

To  the  Most    Worshipful  Grand  Lodge  of  the  State 
of : 

YOUR,  petitioners  respectfully  represent,  that 
they  are  ancient,  free,  and  accepted  Master 
Masons.  Having  the  prosperity  of  the  Fraternity  at 
heart,  they  are  willing  to  exert  their  best  endeavors  to 
promote  and  diffuse  the  genuine  principles  of  Masonry. 
For  the  convenience  of  their  respective  dwellings,  and 
for  other  good  reasons,  they  are  desirous  of  forming  a 

new    Lodge    in    the    town   of  ,    to    be  named 

Lodge.     In  consequence  of   this  desire,  and 

for  the  good  of  the  Craft,  they  pray  for  a  warrant  or 
dispensation,  to  empower  them  to  assemble  as  a  legal 
Lodge,  to  discharge  the  duties  of  Masonry  in  the 
several  degrees  of  Entered  Apprentice,  Fellow-Craft, 
and  Master  Mason,  in  a  regular  and  constitutional 
manner,  according  to  the  ancient  form  of  the  Fra- 
ternity, and  the  laws  and  regulations  of  the  Grand 
Lodge.  That  they  have  nominated  and  do  recom- 
mend A.  B.  to  be  the  first  Master,  C.  D.  to  be  the 
first  Senior  Warden,  and  E.  F.  to  be  the  first  Junior 
Warden  of  said  Lodge  ;  that,  if  the  prayer  of  the 
petition  should  be  granted,  they  promise  a  strict  con- 


138  freemason's  monitor. 

formity  to  all  the  constitutional  laws,  rules,  and  regu- 
lations of  the  Grand  Lodge. 

This  petition  must  be  signed  by  at  least  eight 
regular  Master  Masons,  one  of  whom  must  be  of  the 
degree  of  Past  Master,  and  recommended  by  the 
Lodge  nearest  the  place  where  the  new  Lodge  is 
to  be  held.  It  must  be  delivered  to  the  Grand  Secre- 
tary ,  whose  duty  it  is  to  lay  it  before  the  Grand  Lodge. 
In  the  recess  of  the  Grand  Lodge,  application  should 
be  made  in  the  same  form  to  the  Grand  Master. 

After  a  charter  is  granted  by  the  Grand  Lodge,  the 
Grand  Master  appoints  a  day  and  hour  for  constitut- 
ing and  consecrating  the  new  Lodge,  and  for  install- 
ing the  Master,  Wardens,  and  other  officers.  The 
Grand  Master  has  power  to  appoint  some  worthy  Past 
Master,  with  full  power  to  consecrate,  constitute,  and 
install  the  petitioners. 


FORM  OF  A  PROXY  FROM  THE  GRAND  MASTER  TO 
A  PRESENT  OR  PAST  MASTER  TO  CONSTITUTE  AND 
CONSECRATE  A  NEW  LODGE,  AND  TO  INSTALL  THE 
OFFICERS. 

Office  of  tpie  Grand  Master  of  the  Grand  Lodge  1 
of  F.  and  A.  Masons  of  the  State  of  


18—. 


i 


To  All  Whom  it  May  Concern — Greeting: 
Know  ye,  that,  reposing  full  confidence  in  the  skill 
and  Masonic  ability  of  our  Worshipful  Brother  — — — 


freemason's  monitor.  139 


I,  Grand  Master  of  the  M.  W.  Grand  Lodge  of  ■ 


do  by  these  presents  constitute  and  appoint  him  my 
Proxy,  for  me  and  in  my  name,  to  constitute  and  con- 
secrate        Lodge,    No.  — -J  and    to    install    the 

officers  thereof  in  due  and  ancient  form,  he  making 
due  return  to  me  of  his  doings  in  the  premises. 

Given  under  my  hand  and  private  seal,  at , 

the  day  and  year  first  above  written. 

[private  seal.]  M.  W.    Grand  Master. 


PETITION  FOR  A  DISPENSATION  TO  CONFER  DE- 
GREES ON,  OR  BALLOT  FOR,  A  CANDIDATE,  IN 
LESS   THAN    THE  REGULAR   TIME. 

Hall  of  Lodge,  No  — .  ^ 

18-.     } 

To   the    M.    W.  Grand  Master  of  the    Grand  Lodge 

of : 

By  a  vote  of  this  Lodge,  I  am  instructed  to  ask 
you  for  a  dispensation  to  pass  the  ballot  (or  confer  the 
degrees,  as  the  case  may  be)  for  M.  A.  B.,  who  has 
petitioned  this  Lodge  for  initiation,  (or  is  anxious  to 
receive  the  degrees  of  F.  C.  and  M.  M.,  as  the  case  may 
be,)  at  a  special  meeting,  to  be  called  for  that  purpose. 

M.  A.  B.  is  —  years  of  age ;  his  residence  is ; 

his  occupation  is  .  The  case  is  one  of  emer- 
gency, for  the  reasons  following  :  [Here  state  at  length 
the  reasons  why  a  dispensation  should  be  granted  in 
the  case.]  0.  P.,  W.  Master. 

[SEAL    OF    LODGE.] 


140  freemason's  monitor. 

petition  to  be   presented  by  a  candidate  for 
initiation. 

To     the    Worshipful   Master    Wardens    and    Brethren 

°f Lodge ,  No.  — ,  of  F.  and  A.  Masons: 

The  petition  of  the  subscriber  respectfully  showeth 
that,  having  long  entertained  a  favorable  opinion  of 
your  ancient  institution,  he  is  desirous  of  being  ad- 
mitted a  member  thereof,  if  found  worthy. 

His  place  of  residence  is ;  his  age,  —  years; 

his  occupation, . 

(Signed)  A.  B. 


PETITION   FOR   AFFILIATION. 

To    the    Worshipful    Master    Wardens   and    Brethren 

of Lodge,  No.  — ; 

The  petition  of  the  subscriber  respectfully  showeth 
that  he  is  a  Master  Mason,  and  has  been  regularly  di- 
mitted  from  Lodge  No.  — ,  under  the  juris- 
diction of  the  Grand  Lodge  of  ,  and  is  desir- 
ous of  becoming  a  member  of  your  Lodge. 

His  residence  is  ;  his  occupation  is  . 

Should  his  petition  be  granted,  he  promises  obedience 
to  the  by-laws  and  regulations  of  your  Lodge. 

(Signed)  A.  B. 


PETITION   FOR   DIMIT. 

Date,  ,  186—. 

To  the    Worshipful  Masters,    Wardens,  and    Brethren 

of Lodge,  No.  —  ; 

The  undersigned,  a  Master  Mason,  and  member  in 


freemason's  monitor.  141 

good  standing  in  your  Lodge,  respectfully  asks  to 
withdraw  from  membership,  and  that  a  dimit  be 
issued  to  him  certifying  such  fact. 

The  reasons  which  induce  this  request  are:  [Here 
set  forth  the  reasons,  for  instance,  about  to  remove  to  the 
jurisdiction  of  another  Lodge,  to  join  in  a  petition 
for  new  Lodge,  etc.,  etc.,  as  the  case  may  be.'] 

(Signed)  A.  B. 


FORM   OF   A   DIMIT. 

Hall  of Lodge  No.  — ,  held  at by 

authority  of  the  Grand  Lodge  of .     I  hereby 

certify  that  at  a  meeting  of  Lodge 

No.  — ,  held  on  the  day  of  ,  A.  L. 

586  — ,  Bro. — ,  by  consent  of  said  Lodge,  with- 
drew his  membership  from  the  same ;  he  being  at  the 
time  a  worthy  Master  Mason,  [here  state  Masonic 
official  rank,  P.  M.,  P.  S.  W.,  etc.,  as  the  case  may 
be,~\  in  good  standing,  and  having  paid  all  dues 
assessed  against  him. 

By  order  of  said  Lodge. 

[seal.]  ,  Sec'y. 


PETITION   FOR   A   DIPLOMA 

May  be  made  verbally  by  the  applicant  in  person, 
or  through  any  brother. 


142  freemason's  monitor. 

FORM    OF    DIPLOMA,    OR    GRAND    LODGE    CERTIFICATE. 

Grand  Lodge  of  Free  and  Accepted  Masons  1 
of  the  State  of  .     J 

I  hereby   certify,    that  Lodge,  No.    — ,  is 

regularly  constituted   and  held   under  the  authority 

and  jurisdiction  of  this  Grand  Lodge,  and  that 

is  Worshipful  Master,  is  Senior  Warden,  and 

is  Junior  Warden  of  said  Lodge. 

In  testimony  whereof,  I  have  hereunto  set  my  hand 

and  affixed  the   seal  of  the  Grand  Lodge,  at  , 

this day  of A.  L.  586  — ,  A.  D.  186—. 

[seal.]  ,  Grand  Secretary. 

We,  the   Master   and  Wardens   of  Lodge, 

No.  — ,  held  under  the  authority  and  jurisdiction  of 
the  Grand  Lodge  of  F.  and  A.  Masons  of  the  State 

0f ?  (j0   hereby   certify   that  our-  worthy  and 

well-beloved    brother   (who    has   written    his 

name  below,)  is  a  Master  Mason,  in  good  standing  in 
our  Lodge,  and  he  is  hereby  recommended  to  the 
favor  and  protection  of  the  Craft  throughout  the 
globe. 

Given  under  our  hands  and  the  seal  of  our  Lodge, 

at ,  this  day  of ,"  A.  L.  586 — , 

A.  D.  186—. 

,  W.  M. 

,    S.  M. 

,    J.  W. 

Attest : 

,  Secretary. 


Signature  of 


freemason's  monitor.  143 

PUBLIC  GRAND  HONOBS. 

The  Public  Grand  Honors  are  given  on  all  public 
occasions  in  the  presence  of  the  profane  as  well  as 
the  initiated.  They  are  used  at  the  laying  of  corner- 
stones of  public  buildings,  or  in  other  services  in 
which  the  ministrations  of  the  Fraternity  are  re- 
quired, and  especially  in  funerals.  They  are  given 
in  the  following  manner :  Both  arms  are  crossed  on 
the  breast,  the  left  uppermost,  and  the  open  palms 
of  the  hands  sharply  striking  the  shoulders ;  they 
are  then  raised  above  the  head,  the  palms  striking 
each  other,  and  then  made  to  fall  smartly  upon  the 
thighs.  This  is  repeated  three  times,  and  as  there 
are  three  blows  given  each  time,  namely,  on  the 
breast,  on  the  palms  of  the  hands,  and  on  the  thighs, 
making  nine  concussions  in  all,  the  Grand  Honors 
are  technically  said  to  be  given  "  by  three  times 
three."  On  the  occasion  of  funerals,  each  one  of 
these  honors  is  accompanied  by  the  words  "  the  will 
of  God  is  accomplished :  so  mote  it  be"  audibly 
pronounced  by  the  brethren. — Machey's  Lexicon. 


C  239- flg 


...  V'^'V 


C  if*  * 


»0^ 


•       V»    4 


.*  ^  -*. 


1*  V         rP* 


"* 


•u- 


A°* 


•  •O1 


*W 


^w 


So* 


• 


•  #*■ 


HECKMAN 


BINDERY  INC. 

a^      AUG  89 


N.  MANCHESTER, 
INDIANA  46962 


»  1 1  ' 


**  **^   &••  %  4?